We're at the beginning of a new frontier
here. This is a broad-based demand for
capital. SpaceX orbital AI
infrastructure is a venture capital
style bet that's being treated as index
fund mature and certain.
>> The Musk premium is extremely
significant. It's critical.
>> Speculation is alive and well.
Expectations are very high and this
really sets up the stage for
disappointment.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Live from New York City.
Welcome to Bloomberg Surveillance. Oil
plunging as the US Iran uh Iranian truce
is consolidated right now. Stocks and
bonds surging ahead of world leaders
gathering in France for the annual G7
meeting and investors looking for
guidance from a new Fed chair, Kevin
Walsh. at Wednesday's Fed meeting. For
now, very much risk on, at least in here
in orange and blue and Marie Hordern as
the US and Iran lower the temperature.
It seems like everyone is cheering this
morning. Yeah, everyone's cheering,
especially the markets when they look at
what's going on in terms of Iran and
obviously New York in terms of what's
going on for the Knicks. We'll get to
that later. I'm back from San Antonio.
So, you're saying that it's very much
risk on US Iran lowering the
temperature. The question I have is for
how long? because we are getting very
different reports from Fars news agency
in terms of what they see this deal
going forward and progressing in terms
of what the White House sees it going
forward. What the market cares about
right now is that likely those 600
tankers that are trapped potentially
they're going to be the ones that get
out first. Yeah. The idea is that this
moves at least is going to be open for
traffic at least as of Friday and then
potentially for 60 days as they deal
with some of the hairrier issues. In the
meantime, the G7 meeting really is going
to be the place where all of this is
announced and celebrated, including some
of the attendees that are not part of
G7, the Middle East, as well as some of
the tech founders. What exactly is going
to be uh coming out of those meetings?
>> I think what we want to look forward to
into the G7 is how much these allies
line up with the United States and
helping to reopen the Straight of
Hermoose. Remember NATO said by July, as
long as there's a peace agreement, we
are going to be sending vessels. Well,
it looks like now the UK, Italy, some of
these countries are saying we are going
to help the United States. Remember the
Iranians mind the straight of Hermoose.
You have to clear those minds and give
the confidence to these captains on
these ships to take that journey to
traverse the straight of Hermoose and
not be attacked. In the meantime, oil
prices are plunging and you can see a
real kind of sense that maybe this is
over. If you take a look at equity
markets surging around the world ahead
of what is going to be a massive week,
up 2% on the NASDAQ futures, up one and
a half% on the Russell 2000 and the S&P
up 1.2%. 2%. When you take a look at the
bond space, this is what's underscoring
the idea of potentially a broadening out
in the equity space, plunging more so
actually, frankly, in Europe than over
here in the US. But the 10-year yield
down three basis points. The 2-year
yield down four basis points. Now, just
one rate hike being priced in for 2026,
4.04%. And the why behind it has been
the oil space. You could see oil prices
plunging to the lowest levels in more
than three months, down more than 5% on
Brent and uh WTI in a sense. And Amry,
you were talking uh with some of the
people who are most involved in this,
including Chris Wright, the energy
secretary, talking about how there
already are a lot more barrels flowing
through than many people had expected.
>> Yeah. On Friday in Houston, Chris Wright
said 7 million barrels a day are now
flowing through the straight of her
moose. That's where they see the flow.
Then I spoke to the Chevron CEO Mike
Worth and his team sees it more as about
three million barrels a day. JP Morgan
has it right in the middle at 5 million
barrels a day. But what we do know is
that there was about 2,000 vessels that
are trapped. It's closer now to more
than 600,000 according to Kepler data.
So vessels are getting out. The question
of course is going to be how long until
we get to the exact flow we had before
this conflict began.
>> Yeah. And get the barnacles off some of
these ships and they can get going.
Jonathan Pharaoh is off this week
conveniently as World Cup heats up.
Coming up this hour, Cameron Dawson of
New Edge Wealth will be joining us as
markets rally on news of a US Iran peace
deal. Rocket Lab president and CEO Peter
Beck on space as the new AI frontier.
And Leslie Falconeio of UBS predicting a
hawkish turn at the Federal Reserve.
That meeting is on Wednesday. We begin
this hour though with stocks pushing
higher and crude sinking as the US and
Iran reach a tentative deal to end the
war. Bloomberg's Aabir Ubu Amar joins us
now from Dubai. Air, what's the latest
in terms of what actually has been
agreed to that will go into a place on
Friday?
Good morning. So, look, what we know as
of now is that thisou is going to to be
signed on the 19th, that is Friday, at
the sidelines of G7. We don't have a lot
of clarity on what exactly are the
details in theou. What we know so far is
that it will ensue the immediate
reopening of the street of Hermuz and
then be followed by a 60-day period
where more technical negotiations will
take place with the goal of getting the
Iran nuclear program uh under under the
table essentially and that is what
President Trump said will be negotiated.
Now, some details have been uh coming
out over the past hour or so from far
news agency on the Iranian side saying
that for this 60-day period, Iran and
Raman are not going to be charging tolls
for the tankers and the ships that are
going to be going through. Now, if you
remember over the past couple of months
or so, we've been discussing this
mechanism that Iran was negotiating with
its Armani Armani allies to start
charging tolls once the street reopens.
Now, Iran does say that for this period,
it is not going to do that, but
afterwards that may very much be the
case. It's unclear what the US response
to this mechanism will be. We still have
to wait and see what the exact details
in this interim deal are going to be and
it is going to be released after the
signing takes place in Geneva on Friday.
But what we know for the time being
again is we have the immediate reopening
of Hermuz. We have the 60-day ceasefire
once that comes to fruition if the
nuclear program is negotiated. That
that's good news for the US. If not,
they could go uh either way. they could
either extend the ceasefire further or
President Trump did threaten to go back
to military strikes against Iran. Now,
some of the concessions that we've
discussed multiple times over the past
couple of months, that includes the $24
billion of frozen assets, the oil
sanctions, the lifting of those, those
we don't have much clarity on yet.
overnight when the deal was or when the
agreement was reached uh both sides have
started very quickly coming out with
diverging statements about what
concessions were actually reached and so
we still have a little bit of lack of
clarity when it comes to what the US
agreed to and what Iran in turn had
agreed to. So everything hinges on that
signing ceremony that will be hosted by
Pakistan later this week in Geneva. So
we wait and see what happens there.
>> Air Abu Omar, thank you so much for
being with us and all of your reporting.
Here's a view from Wall Street. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth writing,
"After a small pullback to trend, the
market mood is still resoundingly risk
on. Despite real risks, this uptrend
should be respected." Cameron joins us
now from Warren. I believe you wrote
that even before the agreement was
signed.
>> This uh seems like a different moment
and the market is treating it as more
real as some of the other inroads into a
peace deal. What's so different this
time around? I think what is different
is that there seems to be at least some
confirmation that there is some kind of
agreement moving forward with Iran and
that is certainly breathing life into
areas of the market that have lagged
since the start of the war. If you look
at the non S&P 500 AI trade, meaning
those areas that don't have any exposure
to AI, they're only up about 1% since
the beginning of the war. Compare that
to AI, which is up 47% since the start
of the war. So we know that this market
has been able to make new highs because
of the AI trade with a lot of other
areas of the market left behind. So it's
those left behind areas that have the
most potential of course for some kind
of catch-up trade, some kind of bid as
we see a broadening out potentially and
some of this kind of relief in the
rotation.
>> How much is this really tied to the idea
that it takes heat away from the central
banks to have to be sort of punitive and
and raise rates in the face of
inflation? I think that that is a big
factor in all of this because if we
looked at the upward pressure on oil
prices that fed into gasoline prices,
fed into diesel prices, all of that
created that upward pressure on
inflation, upward pressure on interest
rates and expectations for a more
hawkish Fed or potentially more hawkish
Fed. So, it's those areas of the market
that could see the greatest potential.
Look at the things like financials
finally trading back above their 200 day
moving average on Friday. You saw the
equal weight S&P 500 hit a new high on
Friday. So maybe markets are omnipotent
and they were kind of sniffing out some
of this as we saw the broadening come
back, but that certainly can relieve
some of the pressure on areas of the
market that had been again left behind.
The devil's in the details though, and
that's where this deal is going to be
incredibly challenging between what the
Iranians have on their red lines and
what the White House has. Does the
market not care about that longer term
deal given the fact that this does look
like we're going to have the trade of
her moose open? I think the market just
cares about how much oil is moving
through the straight whether or not what
that deal looks like. The market I think
doesn't care as much and it will then
focus on what is the impact to gasoline
prices. We have the daily average
national gasoline price that's about
just slightly above $4 a gallon. Do we
see that continue to fall going into a
period of peak driving season? Because
again, it's gasoline, it's diesel prices
that feed into inflation prints. And as
we saw inflation on a headline basis
reach very uh high levels and possibly
eyepopping levels last week in the data
and even core inflation move higher.
That of course what was putting pressure
on the Fed to potentially hike. But now
those rate hike backs for the for the
full year this year looked to be at just
72% of the chance of a hike by the end
of the year.
>> Yeah. This morning national gasoline is
just over $4 $46 which is kind of insane
given the fact that Trader Moose is
still closed. Is there any scarring
though that you can see continue from
this episode?
>> I I there's certainly going to be
scarring because we know that
infrastructure has been damaged. And so
the other question is, should you have a
premium on oil prices given the fact
that if Iran is allowed to charge a
toll, does that effectively give them
some kind of hedgeimony in Middle East
oil flows? That suggests that we can't
go back to prewar levels of oil prices
which just would keep that upward
pressure and and on on gasoline prices
as well. So, I think that is the big
question of how much markets are willing
to look past some of that that
infrastructure destruction as well as
continued risk in order to push oil
prices even lower.
>> As you mentioned before, the market
moved on. The market really has looked
through a lot of this and looked to the
areas that are potentially immune to a
lot of this, which is the existential
spending on artificial intelligence and
including space. And we've seen the
SpaceX IPO continue to outperform. It
was up some 19% from the IPO price on
Friday. Today you're seeing it pop
another 5% in pre-market trading. Is
this healthy? Does that give you a sense
of calm and ease or does that give you a
sense of concern?
>> I mean, it's been a full party on guarth
kind of riskon moment for this market
because it's not just SpaceX. It's of
course what we've seen in unprofitable
tech up over 60% and given the fact that
how overbought some of these areas got
back just a couple of weeks ago and they
had a little bit of a correction pulled
right back to their 50-day moving
average and kept on rallying. That
certainly shows you that risk appetite
is completely alive and well. I think
the question we have for the AI trade
going forward is that if you look at the
people spending the money, the
hyperscalers, these are the people that
are fueling the rallies in these
infrastructure trades, names like
Microsoft, Oracle, Meta, are all trading
really heavy. They're down some 20, 30%
off their prior highs. If you continue
to see the market effectively punish
them for spending all of their cash flow
and also other people's money with debt
and equity market raises, could we be in
a scenario that as we look to 2027,
there's less upside to hyperscaler capex
forecasts simply because the market is
not rewarding them anymore?
>> Can you see a time where you actually
are unprofitable at a place like
Microsoft or say Amazon? not
unprofitable, but certainly free cash
flow negative. And that's all because of
the way the accounting works given the
fact that they're able to spread out the
depreciation of these of these hypers
scalar of this capex over a longer
period of time. Also, don't forget
they're getting a boost from accelerated
depreciation because of OBB that's
effectively allowing them to get the tax
benefit of spending all this money as
well. So you do have names like Amazon
that are now free cash flow negative
because they're spending so much money
and that is showing up in the share
prices. And I think a really big
question as we go into 27 is the street
is expecting to see growth in in capex
of another 20 to 50% depending on who
you talk to. However, that's on a basis
of 80% growth this year. And you're
already starting to see the market push
back a little bit on those capex
increases. Look at the way that Oracle
is trading. So all of this AI capex
infrastructure trade is based on this
idea that hyperscalers will continue to
increase their capex forecasts. If they
don't do so, that would be the area or
the opportunity for disappointment.
>> Cameron Dawson, you're going to be
sticking with us, which is a wonderful
thing. Uh right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie,
>> good morning. visa. The US and Iran
reaching an interim agreement to end the
war and reopen the straight of Formuz.
Officials from the two countries will
meet in Switzerland to formally sign the
agreement on Friday, setting the stage
for 60 days of negotiations on the fate
of Thran's nuclear program.
SpaceX shares are trading higher in the
pre-market following its Friday debut
that bolted it into the ranks of the
world's most valuable public companies.
Today will mark SpaceX's first full
trading session. It gained 19% on
Friday.
The New York Knicks are NBA champions.
The city will hold its first ever ticket
tape parade for the team this Thursday.
Mayor Zoran Mdani saying he'll hold a
ceremony at city hall where his
administration will present the Knicks
with keys to the city.
>> And that is your Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
>> All right. AMH
>> first championship since 1973. I was
there.
>> I mean, I saw Patrick Euing. I saw
everyone. It was just it was actually
incredible. And it really was the sixth
burrow of the night because honestly it
felt like 75% of this the stadium was
were Nick fans. Everyone knew it was
going to be okay. Philadelphia when they
said Philadelphia is a stretch but we
start talking about San Antonio. That
said, it has been an amazing moment
where even a Yankees fan and a Mets fan
can come together.
>> This is why it's so incredible for New
York and
>> have enthusiasm for New York.
>> Everyone can coalesce around the Knicks.
You could be a Jets or Giants fan, Mets
or Yankees, but everyone will love the
Knicks. This is so incredible for New
York.
>> Maybe the Mets can actually stage a
comeback. Now, up next, the AI race on
the global stage.
>> We're leading China. We're leading
everybody in the world with AI, and we
want to keep it that way. We're totally
leading the AI race and the artificial
intelligence.
>> America is going to win it.
>> Tyler Kendall joins us from the G7
summit in France next. Plus more with
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
That collective cheer you here is New
York City celebrating the New York
Knicks as well as people looking to a
possible truce between the US and Iran.
Right now you can see markets around the
world collectively sawing relief that
maybe just maybe we'll start to see oil
and all the other commodities flowing
through this trade for moves. S&P
futures up 1.2% pre-market trading. You
can see the euro gaining versus the
dollar and this is sort of a collective
dollar weakening as everything else
starts to broaden out and see the
potential gains from a less constricted
straight of her moose. 10-year yields
lower by about four basis points 4.44%
ahead of that Fed meeting on Wednesday.
Crude is the big driver down 5.7%
$80 for WTI. But we are talking about
the lowest levels going back to March as
people take a look at how this market
can right size after a number of months
on the sidelines under surveillance this
morning. The AI race on the global
stage.
>> We're leading China. We're leading
everybody in the world with AI and we
want to keep it that way. We're leading
everybody and I don't want to do
anything that's going to get in the way
of that lead. We're totally leading the
AI race and the artificial intelligence.
America is going to win it.
>> Here's the latest. Executives from the
largest AI companies including
Anthropic, Open AI, and Google all
heading to France along with the world
leaders for the G7 summit. The gathering
comes after Anthropic shut off access to
its most advanced AI models in response
to a US government order. Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall joins us now. Uh looking
beautiful in France. Tyler, it looks
like it's a lovely scene there. I'm just
curious from your vantage point what the
significance of some of these tech
leaders being at this G7 meeting really
means.
Well, Lisa, this face-to-face meeting
between these tech CEOs and G7 leaders
is going to be just as much about the
potential opportunities around AI, but
also the potential risks. Because this
move by the Trump administration
regarding Anthropic marks what's
considered to be the most significant
move to date by US officials in regards
to any AI company's internal operations.
And the Commerce Department outlined in
this order and threat of an export ban
that Anthropic needed to take this
action until the US can bolster its own
national security apparatus. says,
"People familiar with the matter tell us
that top company executives are now
engaging directly with Washington,
increasing that dialogue to try to
address some of these specific security
concerns because Anthropic says that it
believes that the government took this
action amid concerns that you could
essentially bypass some of the guard
rails regarding Mythos." But they added
that they think that the US is going too
far. They say that this is a
disproportionate response, adding in
part, quote, "We believe this is a
misunderstanding and we are working to
restore access as soon as possible." But
Lisa, it is definitely sparking the
conversation here on the ground. And
since we're at the G7, we've actually
heard from at least one G7 leader so
far, and that's Canadian Prime Minister
Mark Carney, who said that the Trump
administration's move just underlies uh
and and underscores relying too much on
only a handful of AI tools. So I think
this meeting is going to be a lot about
cooperation but also about that
competition.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth still
with us. Uh Cameron, how much are you
looking at some of the regulation and
some of the crackdown particularly when
it comes to anthropic as a path forward
for what other tech companies can
expect?
>> Well, I think it's interesting when you
think about how people are starting to
use some of the Chinese models, not
because of security, but because they're
simply cheaper. And we were in this
environment where people were token
maxing and kind of ignoring some of the
high costs of the US-based models. But
now all of a sudden companies are waking
up and saying, "Oh my gosh, this is a
lot more expensive and even sometimes
more expensive than the human versions."
And I think the other thing that's
really fascinating is that empirical
research put out a chart that looked at
the amount of code that's being written
by AI, but then the amount of code
that's actually being deployed by AI
being much much lower. So suggesting
that as much as there's these security
concerns, there's also cost questions
for companies as they think about how
much they're going to rely on AI to
replace humans. Do you think this is
also a signal that the Trump
administration is going to have a bit
more of a heavier hand when it comes to
regulation? Because at first it was let
the models rip, let the competition go
and now it seems like they're really
pulling that back. These are some of the
biggest export controls we've ever seen.
>> Yeah. not only to have a heavy hand in
regulation but then also potentially
take a stake in the companies in order
to have kind of this both sides of
things. Look, I think it's it's
obviously this this this technology has
the potential to be very dangerous which
is why there was a stop on on some of
the rollout of it and so it suggests
that there needs to be regulation. The
question as well is will there be
regulation on the state level as well?
That's been something that's been
debated. So you know clearly this is an
arms race. The question is, does this
matter for markets in the sense that
will this stop or slow down any of the
spending that's been so important for
what's been driving markets higher?
>> What do you think it means for the
upcoming anthropic IPO?
>> Well, goodness. I mean, I think that it
that's a it's a great question and I
don't think that there's necessarily any
way to handicap it. The question is,
will the market still be willing to look
through the fact that they are burning a
lot of cash? And I think the key metric
to watch for the anthropic IPO is if you
continue to see the re the huge
acceleration in revenue. You've
effectively had revenue go from $9
billion at the start of the year to
nearly $50 billion today because of the
adoption of these models. So if any of
this regulation slows the adoption of
the models, does it necessarily or
potentially slow the growth in the
revenue which of course would be a
negative as they're trying to to issue
shares of a deeply unprofitable company.
We're talking about regulation. We're
talking about the potential crackdown
with huge controls put on anthropic's
latest and greatest model, the fable and
the mythos. There is a question around
the use of social media for kids under
the age of 16 over in the United
Kingdom. I'm looking this morning at the
AI related names in the market.
Pre-market trading, Amazon shares up one
and a half%. You could see uh Alphabet
up more than 2%. Meta also rising. There
isn't a sense right now that really
there is any concern. Is it considered a
good thing because it will allow them to
create a moat around themselves and it
will create a more difficult scenario
for anyone trying to be a comp
competitor?
>> Yeah, look, I mean, these are
effectively monopoly businesses. At
least their legacy businesses were
monopolies. And so if you have
regulatory modes that make it harder for
new people to enter into this market, it
means that it's just far easier to
defend your monopolies. I think though
the the thing with AI to remember is
that AI effectively is a competitive
force that could disrupt these legacy
monopolies. And that's the really big
question of how these companies continue
to spend because they're spending all of
the cash from their legacy monopolies in
order to compete in AI. But the question
is, will there be one ring, one model to
rule them all? which means that not
everybody will get the return on
invested capital that the market would
like in order to justify this degree of
heavy capex.
>> Cameron Dawson, wonderful to see you and
kick off a really busy week with you.
Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth. Ahead
of that Fed meeting on Wednesday and as
markets really look to a potential truce
between the US and Iran as reopening the
street for moose and allowing oil prices
to once again be something on the back
burner. Coming up, Rocket Lab president
and CEO Peter Beck is a space sector
gets a boost from the SpaceX IPO. I
promise there won't be too many tad
jokes about uh blasting off and going to
the moon. Plus, you hire Anand with your
morning hoovers. That stock extending
gains after its trading debut. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
This is enthusiasm, yes, but it's tepid
enthusiasm for the potential for some
sort of truce between the US and Iran.
It could reopen the street as soon as uh
Friday and get ships going through. Some
600 tankers and other ships are waiting
on the sidelines to go through, possibly
more that have had their transponder
off. When you take a look at markets,
they are up. You do see a rally across
the board, but not necessarily as much
as you might expect. Over in the US, S&P
futures up one and a quarter percent.
The Nasdaq doing better up more than 2%.
The DAX up 1 and a4%. Again, you would
expect it to be more if you truly
believe the oil prices would go plunging
down. And then you could see the Cosby
closing out up 5.2%. So, uh, that
levered trade over in South Korea
getting the boost the NASDAQ is getting
as people can go back into the tech
trade. When you take a look at the bond
market, you could see that a lot of
central bankers are getting a reprieve
in the US. Heading over to Wednesday
with Federal Reserve Chair Kevin Wars
taking his first time at the podium for
this press conference. Yields lower.
Exactly what he wants to see. Two-year
yields down four four basis points to
4.04%.
Definitely giving a reprieve at a time
where a lot of people are seeing how is
he going to tow the line between
President Trump and potentially Marcus
looking for a very very different
outcome. Well, this is a gift for Kevin
Worsh. And it really kicks off the Worsh
era where he's going to be answering a
lot of questions a little bit easier for
him saying, well, actually, we are
seeing potentially the reopen of the
trade of Hermoose, so we can maybe look
through earnestly this oil shock because
prices and we see that on the board are
dropping. You have WTI at $80 a barrel
today. Of course, devil in the details.
as far as news agency is already saying
that okay the straight up removes will
be open for this 60-day extension but
then after that they're going to toll
for things like safety navigation
environmental services that's what the
regime is saying the president of United
States is saying we will not accept a
toll countries will not accept a toll so
this is the start of a deal but it's
going to be messy yeah you can see those
oil prices falling to the lowest going
back to the beginning of March really
down five uh 5% on WTI $80 the $80 $
handle after getting up close to 100
just a couple of weeks ago. Brent at
$835.
Three hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Yah.
Yah. Hi Lisa. Well, as SpaceX heads to
its first full trading session as a
public company, we are seeing shares
getting a lift up nearly 5.5%
in the pre-market after its blockbuster
debut. And helping to fuel those gains
uh are some comments from Elon Musk over
the weekend saying that SpaceX could
generate $1 trillion in revenue by 2031.
That would be a dramatic leap from the
$19 billion it generated in revenue last
year. Uh meanwhile as you said we are
seeing a risk on mood across markets uh
after the US and Iran said that they
agreed to a deal to end the war and
that's helping to fuel gains across the
semiconductor industry but especially in
the higher beta names like Micron and
SanDisk. Micron jumping 7.3% in the
pre-market and at the same time as you
said since this deal does include the
reopening of the straight of Hormuse and
oil prices are moving lower that is
helping to lift the airline stocks with
names like American, United and Delta
all rising in the pre-market on
expectations that lower jet fuel costs
could help margins and also this idea of
people being more willing to travel with
the war over and prices potentially
coming down. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira, on our radar
this morning, the US and Iran reaching
an interim deal to halt the war and
reopen the street of Vermuz officials
from both countries will meet in
Switzerland on Friday to formally sign
the agreement. A 60-day window has been
left to negotiate issues around Iran's
nuclear program as well as some other
thorny things that have been sticking
this deal for a while. UK Prime
Minister, meanwhile, Kier Starmer
announcing a ban on social media for
children under 16.
Social media is making children unhappy.
It's making it easier for bullies to
harass and abuse them. And it could even
be harming their mental health, exposing
them to content that is dangerous
because that's what grabs the attention.
It's designed to be addictive.
>> The ban will be implemented next spring
and follows a similar type of ban that
we have seen in Australia. Meanwhile,
the US government taking an
unprecedented step to rein in artificial
intelligence, ordering AI giant
Anthropic to suspend access to its most
advanced models to keep the technology
safe from foreign nationals. Anthropic
pushing back on the decision in a
statement. So, this to me is a really
interesting conundrum because on one
hand, they've been coming out and saying
we need more regulation. On the other
hand, Amory, we have seen them really
talking about the potential uh for this
to impede their ability to do business.
They seem upset and annoyed with the
administration after they've basically
been begging out in the open, regulate
us, regulate us, regulate us. Well,
guess what? The Trump administration
said, "We're putting on export controls.
We think this is too dangerous." And now
they have a problem with it. The
political story has an incredible tidbit
that Anthropic seems to be pushing out
on. But the administration attempted to
reach Dario Amoe, but he was but he they
were told he was quote unavailable
because he was attending a wellness
retreat. One of the senior
administration officials from the White
House told the political spokesperson
for anthropic rejected this saying it's
absolutely false. I thought that was an
interesting tip. You couldn't get a hold
of your CEO because at a wellness
retreat when this is potentially one of
the most pivotal moments for this
company. Well, it also uh underscores
the sense of unease right now because
things are moving very quickly. A lot of
money is being raised and people are
wondering exactly what it's being used
for, whether it truly is dangerous and
essential in equal parts both or whether
it is just an extreme capital raise,
which is why people are watching SpaceX
as something to potentially be a for
foreshadowing of what might come with
anthropic and open AAIS IPOs later this
year. SpaceX shares rising in the
pre-market ahead of its first full day
of trading. Space sector peers are also
getting a boost from its record-breaking
IPO. Joining us now, Rocket Lab
president and CEO Peter Beck. Peter,
thank you so much for being with us. You
have been a public company for quite a
while. You two are getting something of
a boost from this. What do you think
people have gotten wrong about investing
in space until now when they're starting
to pay attention?
>> Yeah, I think space is kind of an
interesting uh opportunity. I mean, it's
it's relatively new to the market. Um
and you know we listed uh you know a few
years ago now and uh and really are
probably the the really the only pure
play um space company at scale here on
the public markets. So um you know it's
great that when SpaceX lists um it
brings a lot of eyeballs and interest
and and uh you know good research to the
sector. So I think uh you know I think
net net it's um you know it's it's it's
a good thing for the whole space
industry. Does it make you concerned
that the competitive draw from SpaceX
will be overwhelming for Rocket Lab?
>> Uh no, I don't think so. Um you know,
the reality is that uh you know, SpaceX
is a space company, but it's also very
much an AI company and a bunch of other
things as well. Um and uh but you know,
Rocket Lab is, you know, a very very
squarely focused um you know, pure play
space company. And you know as I said
before it's uh um you know I think it
draws investors into the sector and and
when they go looking um you know Rocket
Lab is really the clear number two uh
with respect to you know launch
frequency and and those kinds of things.
So uh so no I think it uh I don't I'm
not too worried about that.
>> So so do you find yourself complimentary
to SpaceX or are you in direct
competition with Elon Musk?
>> Oh in some in some cases in direct
competition but uh but also very
complimentary. Um, you know, we are an
end-to-end space company. So, you know,
we're the second most frequently
launched rocket uh US rocket in the
world uh behind uh SpaceX. So, you know,
the rocket bit of it is uh is
competitive, but um you know, twothirds
of our business is building satellites
and spacecraft uh and supplying merchant
components to the rest of the space
industry. So, you know, in that sense,
you know, not really a competitor at
all.
>> How do you expect to fund growth in the
future given how expensive launches are?
Yeah. Well, I mean, we we one of the
things that we've been extremely good at
over the years is we've been very very
capital efficient. Um, so you know,
Rocket Lab was was born from a tiny
little town at the very bottom of New
Zealand. Uh, so it wasn't born with uh
with the the backing of uh you know,
large capital resources. So, we've
always had to be super scrappy and uh
and and very um you know, very efficient
with our capital and that that
continues. Um and but luckily saying
that you know over the 20 years of
Rocket Lab's history we've never
struggled to raise the capital we need
to be able to do the things that we also
need to do and uh you know in the public
markets um you know we we're we're you
know obviously that gave us access to a
larger quantum of capital and we've been
able to grow you know as you can see
very very quickly in the last couple of
years. Peter, can you lay out what the
business case is for the space economy?
And this comes at a time when, as you
mentioned, SpaceX has a lot of different
competing uh factors. They have, of
course, the question of launching into
space, but also AI and also
connectivity. Is it a national security
issue? Is it getting to Mars? How do you
see the space economy evolving as
central to the economy here on Earth?
>> Well, it's a funny thing because um you
know, it's it's hidden infrastructure.
So, you know, nobody can really see the
satellites apart from a whizzing star in
the sky in a nice clear night. But the
reality is that just about everybody's
lives all the time is being influenced
and touched by space. Uh whether you're
in order order a pizza um and it arrives
at your door, well actually that was all
space enabled through the GPS
constellation. Uh and whether you, you
know, you're thinking about getting
married on a day and you you look at the
weather and that's all coming from
space. So space is kind of one of those
things that it's like water in the in
the pipes that it's it's hidden
infrastructure and people don't realize
just you know how much they use it. Um
but in saying that you know that the
growth in the industry is tremendous
because it used to be just the domain of
governments. You know space is really
well and truly now the domain for
commercial enterprise and uh that
democratization of space is is you know
what what you've seen just grow
tremendously uh and over over the last
sort of you know few years. Are you
worried that right now the amount of
money being raised will dampen
enthusiasm for this sector over the next
few years if there isn't the same kind
of outperformance as some of the capital
raises seem to be promising right now?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean that that that's a
fact. I mean uh you know it's all about
execution at this point. And uh you know
once again that's that's been something
that that we've been well rewarded for
is is is execution. So yeah, of course,
if if you rage raise large quantums of
capital and then don't execute, then
people people don't look look very
favorably upon you. Um but uh you know,
I guess you know, for us, we've we've
we've been able to hold that execution.
So and been re rewarded, but um you
know, it is it is a risk in any fast
growing sector and there's always people
that that you know promise a lot and
might not be able to deliver.
>> Peter, how far are we away from real
data centers in space?
Well, there's a quite a there's a few
technical issues to solve, but you know,
the the physics is sound sound. It can
be done. Uh I'm not really worried about
the you know, the technical issues
there. I'm I'm more interested in the
pure economics of it all. Um because uh
you know, if you think about data
centers, it requires a couple of major
things to happen. You know, reduction in
launch costs and and uh you know,
scaling of a number of technologies. uh
and that's going to be in direct
competition to uh you know the the cost
of electricity down here on Earth. So
you know I think you know I don't think
it's a sure thing that all data centers
are moving to space. I think there
absolutely will be some for strategic
and defense reasons. Uh but I think
we're also you know it's a bit of a
bakeoff between you know how quickly can
can those uh you know those orders of
magnitude and change and cost reductions
occur in space versus down here on
Earth.
>> Peter Beck of Rocket Lab, thank you so
much for being with us. that is the
Rocket Lab president and CEO as we look
at a SpaceX IPO that seems to be getting
enthusiasm in postmarket trading. That
is key question. How much is this a
promise to create infrastructure that
might be above and beyond the sort of
space economy that as Peter said is like
water and in how we operate.
>> Yeah. He says it's basically so much of
what we already do now is basically
relying on the infrastructure we have in
space. When it comes to data centers
though, I know you've been interested in
this. I maybe it was the tone of my
question. He's like, "No, for sure it's
real." But for him, it's about when it
actually could be profitable and make
sense to start doing that in space. But
that is the path. That is the direction
of travel right now.
>> Yeah. And certainly something that Elon
Musk has raised many times over. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
brief with Bonnie Quinn. Bonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. President Donald Trump
urging Israel to stop its attacks on
Lebanon and saying there should be no
more strikes by either side, including
Hezbollah. Trump saying this could be
the beginning of a long and beautiful
piece.
Switzerland has rejected a proposal to
cap its population at 10 million people
as concerns over economic damage
outweigh worries over immigration. In a
national ballot on Sunday, 55% of voters
opposed the measure. 45% backed it.
President Donald Trump marking his 80th
birthday Sunday by hailing an agreement
to end the war in Iran. The announcement
coming hours before a birthday
celebration with a UFC fight on the
White House South Lawn. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Vonnie. You weren't
at the UFC fight.
>> The spectacle, the brawl on on the South
Lawn. I I was not in attendance for
that. I chose the Knicks.
>> It's just the uh the week of sports
really. Uh whether it is the Knicks, the
World Cup, or the UFC fight. Up next,
Fed chair Kevin Worsh on deck.
The Fed clearly has a pretty complicated
dynamic that it's facing.
>> You do need the Fed to turn away from
this easing bias.
>> Most Fed officials of course are going
to be fine leaving rates as they are.
>> The safest thing the Federal Reserve can
do politically and also economically I
think is just to do nothing.
>> Leslie Falconeio UBS joining next amid a
week of central bank decisions. It's not
just the US, it's also England, it's
also Australia. It's also the Bank of
Japan and beyond. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Last week it could have gone either way
and a lot of people were pretty
skeptical of some of the discussions of
a truce. Today not so much. You're
seeing uh stocks around the world rally
in the face of an expected truce to be
signed on Friday between the US and
Iran. US equities up one and a half% one
and a quarter% now on S&P futures.
NASDAQ up 2%, Russell 2000 up 1 and a.5%
really coming from the space in yields
where you can see yields falling across
the board most notably at the front end
of the yield curve ahead of that Fed
meeting on Wednesday down almost five
basis points to 4.04% 04% giving some
reprieve to Kevin Wars as he steps to
the podium for his first FOMC meeting
press conference. And this is all really
predicated off the move in oil. Oil
prices plunging more than 5% around the
world. WTI down 54% $8041
the lowest levels going back to the
beginning of March. A real question here
for how central banks are going to look
at this at a time where inflationary
inputs are coming from myriad places
under surveillance this morning. Fed
chair Kevin Walsh on deck.
>> The Fed clearly has a pretty complicated
dynamic that it's facing.
>> My gut is is that the new Fed chair what
they'll try to do is do no harm in June.
>> You do need the Fed to turn away from
this easing by.
>> Most Fed officials of course are going
to be fine leaving rates as they are.
The safest thing the Federal Reserve can
do politically and also economically, I
think, is just to do nothing.
>> Here's the latest. Fed chair Kevin Walsh
gearing up for his first policy meeting
with markets expecting the central bank
to hold rates steady. Leslie Falconeio
of UBS writing, "We expect the June
meeting to include removal of the easing
bias. We think the Fed is likely to turn
more hawkish in the near term." Leslie
joins us now for more. Leslie, great to
see you and we will get into it in just
a minute. What form do you think this
press conference is going to come in? Do
you think that it will be the typical
display and explanation of the
deliberations or will it feel different
in a new war era?
>> Um, I'm not sure it's necessarily going
to feel different per se. I mean, Worsh
has to to really focus on the power of
persuasion, but I think in this meeting
you have sort of that, you know,
emphasis on most, you know, if not all
committee members believe this is a, you
know, they're going to remove the easing
bias. They're obviously not going to
cut. they're going to keep the the high
higher for longer. And even those that
are more hawkish members like Hammock, I
don't think is no one's going to say,
"Okay, we should be hiking right now."
So that hawkish outlook is really just
because they're going to remove the
easing bias. We're probably going to
take out the 2026 cut, but our
expectation is is that the next move is
still a cut and not a hike. We're just
pushing that out into 2027. Leslie, do
you think that the drop in oil prices
and the potential truce between Iran and
the US will materially lift the desire
for markets to see a hawkish tilt from
this Federal Reserve?
>> Well, you know what's interesting about
that, Lisa, is that if you look at even
prior to this agreement, right, we had
oil falling, inflation expectations were
coming down both in the long end and in
the short end, but even as oil fell,
two-year yields were still rising. and
they were still rising because the
market was pricing in that almost 100%
chance of a hike in December 2026. Now,
what's happening now is oil prices are
coming down, but the market's removing
those hikes now. And because of that,
the two-year yield is coming down. So,
we can't say with certainty, you know,
what's going to happen with this
agreement because we don't have an a lot
enough details yet. But one thing that
the market is pricing in today is that
it's taking out those hikes and because
that yields are coming down more than
even what you're seeing in the decline
in oil because again those inflation
expectations were coming down prior to
the agreement.
>> So based on what we hear from the White
House and Iran and also what the market
is telling you, do you just think
they're on hold for this year?
>> I do. I do think they're on hold for
this year. I mean unless there's some,
you know, fat tail event that we're not
seeing but you know we just don't see
that. I mean we growth is obviously you
know much stronger than what people
expected. I've never heard the words
resilient and uncertainty so many times
in the same sentence as we have these
past three months. But listen growth has
been resilient and so has the consumer.
You're looking at 2.6% in real for the
second quarter. We have retail sales
this week which is supposed to be above
consensus. So that growth component, you
know, is is hanging in there. But but
the issue is is how that labor market
really starts to play out. And yes, we
saw a strong number, but you can't take
one number with complete certainty. So,
I do think they're just going to sit
back, you know, exercise that option
that they have and just sort of wait and
see and have the data come in before
they shift, you know, probably in the
first to second quarter of 2027.
>> Do you think Kevin Worsh just sits back
and doesn't decide to play connect the
dots and decides to not put a dot on the
plot?
>> Yeah, that's a great question. And
actually, I'm not sure because there's
two things to that. One, it wouldn't be
unprecedented, you know, if he didn't.
And if he didn't, he's sort of standing
by his conviction that he doesn't
believe in forward guidance. But again,
at your first meeting to not sort of,
you know, show your your opinion in
those dots. I mean, what what worsh has
to worry about is a power of persuasion,
right? So to not put a dot in there, I
don't think would necessarily be the
best move. So honestly, I don't know. I
think that he does, but unless he really
wants to stick to his conviction
regarding forward guidance or or the
lack of forward guidance, he wants to
see going forward and he simply steps
back.
>> I love it. to dot or not to dot and the
idea of will he put his dot on that
plot.
>> Well, it'll be a little scandalous
almost to Leslie's point. You he'll be
making a real statement his first
meeting deciding to not put a dot there
and then what does that say to the rest
of the committee when he's trying to
persuade them towards how he thinks
about the world and the economy right
now.
>> You know, Leslie, we were talking about
how it's not just the Federal Reserve.
We're getting meetings from the Reserve
Bank of Australia. We're getting the B
Bank of Japan meeting potentially to
hike rates. That's what the market is
expecting. You have the Bank of England,
you have the Rick's Bank, you have a
whole host of different other central
bankers that have to make a decision.
How much does Kevin War set the tone for
them?
>> Well, listen, I think that we've
obviously seen, you know, divergence
come to convergence, right? Because, you
know, if we go back to February for the
US, we were actually on more of a
cutting cycle while everyone was still
sort of like in that hiking path given
that they focus especially in Europe on
that one mandate which is price
stability. But now you're seeing a bit
more convergence into how people are
thinking. I think it's it's expected
that they as you mentioned that the BOJ
you know hikes same with the BOE. I
think going forward what's going to be
interesting is to see how much you know
pass through these supply shocks
actually have you know if these are
these are not demand driven so we really
need to see what the input will be and
if in fact inflation does stay that much
higher for longer even though it's not
expected and it's just supposed to pass
through. Does it concern you how strong
uh you've seen capital markets in the
face of higher interest rates, higher
oil prices, and a lot of uncertainty?
>> You know, it's it's it's incredible how
little the spreads have moved in both
high quality, say, you know, agency MBS
or IG and even in high yield. You know,
you still have a lot of dispersion in
the high yield market, but they have
really stayed in a very tight range.
Now, granted, you know, we have that we
talk about that wealth effect and that
compounding wealth effect that we've
seen since 2022. We have over 8 trillion
of cash on the sidelines and the yields
are very very high. Right? This is a
yielddriven investment type of
environment. This is not a risk premium
type of drive. So I'm surprised how well
that they have stayed sort of contained.
But financial conditions remain loose.
The capital markets remain open. We're
still seeing you know growth do rel do
well as well as earnings. But I do get
concerned a little bit given the fact
that right now people are really
investing for the yield and not
necessarily what they're being
compensated for.
>> Falcone of UBS. Thank you so much for
being with us ahead of a huge week for
the bond market given what we're going
to be getting from central banks around
the world most notably Kevin Worsh and a
lot of the enthusiasm at least in the
bond market today with yields down four
basis point to the front end of the
yield curve comes from what's happening
in the oil space at a time when this
market is cheering a potential truce
between the US and Iran but clearly
there's still some skepticism about what
this actually means and how much oil
volumes can get back to where they were
before and there should be skepticism in
terms of the deal because we're hearing
a little bit of different details from
Iran than we are from the White House.
And of course, we want to see the text
after they sign it. We should see the
release of the text, but the Iranians
are saying that yeah, the trade form
will open, but then we're going to have
a tolling system. They're demanding
things that this White House has said
were red lines. So, potentially it's
going to be a little bit messy down the
word down down the road. Mike Wilson and
Morgan Stanley was writing expect some
more choppiness in coming weeks, but
reiterates that he thinks these markets
could push higher. Yeah, that's what
we're seeing this morning. Although
really the enthusiasm still focused on
the tech sector. Coming up in the next
hour, Seth Carpenter of Morgan Stanley,
Henriator Tra of Veta Partners, Noah
Weissberger of BCA Research, and David
Tinsley of the Bank of America Institute
from New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> The Fed clearly has a pretty complicated
dynamic that it's facing.
>> It's more and more apparent that we're
not going to get a rate cut anytime
soon, but I also don't think that we're
going to hike very quickly either.
>> I think they're just on hold uh
indefinitely. I think the hurdle to hike
is a lot higher.
>> Cuts her off the table for the balance
of the year
>> right now. Looking through is looking as
clear as mud.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks and bonds both
rallying as the Iran and US reach a
truce. World leaders gathering in France
to kick off the 52nd G7 summit. Oil
prices meanwhile plunging given a
reprieve to a new Fed share Kevin Wars
who takes the podium on Wednesday this
morning. It really is being driven by
oil with the WTI down more than 5% on
the idea that maybe just maybe this
trade for moves will open back up and
that's what's pushing these markets
actually to rethink potentially hikes
this year. And it's a gift really to
Kevin Worsh as he begins his era at the
Federal Reserve this week. Of course,
there's a lot of excitement about
potentially the straight of Hamus being
opened, but the devil's going to be in
the details. Already the Iranians are
saying we'll have the 60 days the
straight will be open, but then after
that, we're going to have a tolling
system with Oman and then of course the
nuclear negotiations begin. The JCPOA
took 20 months. This is going to be very
technical and it's going to take a very
long time and potentially this is where
it's going to be messy because there are
still red lines that they do not agree
on between the White House and Tyrron.
This is a massive week for geopolitics
and markets. If you take a look at
what's coming up, you have uh the G7
meeting taking place in France. That's
going to be for the next few days. You
have a slew of central bank decisions.
It's not just the Federal Reserve on
Wednesday. It's the Bank of Japan, the
Reserve Bank of Australia tomorrow or
overnight. Bank of England, Swiss
National Bank, Nores Bank, etc., etc.
And then, of course, Fed Chair uh Kevin
Worsh. You have economic data coming to
the four with jobless claims and retail
sales. And then of course on Friday you
have the likely signing of these two
deals. It is the confluence of all of
these factors coming together and
underscoring a real question AMH which
is how much has the inflation in the
system really come from the oil price
versus other factors in the economy such
as the other part of the G7 meeting
which is the tech leaders that are all
there. Yeah, it's pretty incredible the
names that are going to be there. Most
importantly, the anthropic CEO, I
believe, is going to be attending this
G7 in France at a time where we are
seeing very big export controls on two
of their systems from this
administration. So, how the United
States, how Europe, how the G7
collectively may work to regulate these
AI models coming at a critical time
before their massive potential IPOs on
Wall Street.
>> Yeah. Right now, what you're seeing in
markets is a lot of enthusiasm for a
potential deal, but not as much as you
might expect. This is a market that is
tempering, curbing its enthusiasm for
what this actually means before it sees
more details. Also, because a lot's
already been baked in, up about one and
a quarter% for S&P futures. You can see
dollar weakness across the board. The
rest of the world getting a boost. Euro
up about 4/10en of a percent, 116.
10-year yields lower by four basis
points, 4.44%
ahead of that Fed meeting. And crude
leading the charge down more than 5%
with an 80 handle on WTI. the lowest
levels really going back to the
beginning of March. Can we reverse all
of the gains from the conflict at a time
where we still haven't seen oil price
oil truly flowing freely through the
street of Permuse? Coming up this hour,
do not miss this. Seth Carpenter of
Morgan Stanley with markets awaiting
Kevin Wch's first meeting as Fed chair.
Henrietta Trees of Veta Partners with
the US and Iran agreeing to halt the war
in the Middle East and Noah Weisberger
of BCA research warning that SpaceX's
historic debut could spark some concerns
for future IPOs. We begin this hour with
stocks and bonds rising after an interim
agreement between the US and Iran was
reached. The breakthrough coming ahead
of Fed's June meeting the first under
new chair Kevin Walsh. Seth Carpenter of
Morgan Stanley writing this. While the
tariff impulse appears to be nearing
completion, sustained disinflation ahead
depends on the resolution of the
conflict. We expect the Fed to hold
rates unchanged. Seth joins us now here
in studio, which is a wonderful thing.
Hey, good morning.
>> Good morning. So, is this enough for you
to think that the inflationary pressure
is probably going to be on a downward
trajectory or is there something else at
play here?
>> Um, so probably. How's that for an
economist answer? Um, yes.
>> Look, the uh the path to a Fed rate hike
in our view was never going to be just
about inflation and absolutely not just
about oil driven inflation. So,
historically in the US, oil driven
inflation, it pushes up headline, but
not that much typically pass through to
core. uh this time could have been
different. We'll still have to see how
everything plays out. Um but we were
thinking if the Fed was going to hike,
it would be a combination of inflation,
especially core inflation staying
sustained, staying above 3% or so, and
the underlying momentum of the real side
of the economy broadening out, firming
up, keeping going. And if we look at say
the last several jobs reports, something
that we haven't been talking about so
much with oil prices being front and
center, they've shown that the fall in
hiring bottomed out. Things are starting
to pick up again. And so I think the
real key here is going to be where is
that underlying strength in the economy?
And is there more inflation momentum
outside of oil prices? We know that the
pass through from tariffs has
essentially run its course. That's going
to be a disinflationary force. Is there
actually that much more fundamental
broad-based inflationary pressure to
overcome that tariff disinflation?
>> On a certain level, doesn't lower oil
prices help the idea of broadening out
and strength that could potentially feed
some of the other parts of inflation
that can make the Fed uneasy? Well, I
mean, it is a bit of a double-edged
sword that way because if consumers in
general feel freer to spend, they have
more disposable income to spend on
everything but gasoline, then just maybe
there's a a bit more resilience then to
that aggregate demand. So, I think
that's a real risk. We just have to see
how all of this plays out. And I have to
say that the the agreement's been
announced. We haven't seen things
signed. We haven't seen the increase in
the flow of oil actually happen yet. we
haven't got to that critical point where
there has to be an agreement on all the
rest of the tricky details as you were
saying before. Um so I think it's too
soon to have any conviction that we know
exactly where things are going.
>> What would it take for you to have
conviction? What do you want to hear out
of this agreement where the two sides
agree on?
>> Oh well I think there I just want to see
the actual flow of oil happen and then I
think there are a lot of questions that
happen after that. What happens to the
rebuilding of inventories around the
world? If people were happy with their
stock of inventories before this
conflict started, are they going to look
at that level and go, in case this ever
happens again, we need to have an even
bigger inventory, in which case you can
see a much greater surge in demand once
things start flowing. Uh we'll be
looking at natural gas. How long will it
take for the flow of the supply of
natural gas to filter out around the
world? the rebuild of inventories in
lots of places there that's pretty
seasonal can be pushed off for a while.
It can't be pushed off forever and we
know that there was some damage
sustained to cuttery production and so I
think there is a question about where
will the market settle out once we have
a clearer idea of supply and demand
coming together.
>> How do you expect the new Fed chair to
talk about all of this?
>> Uh very cautiously. Uh I don't think
there is a lot uh for Kevin Wars to get
out of being overly definitive here. It
is a very fluid situation and so him
acknowledging that I think makes it
easier. He's been clear that too much
forward guidance is is probably not a
good thing and if ever that statement
was true, it is right now. Uh watching
all the different paths come together.
Coming into this year, we were pretty
constructive on the underlying momentum
of the economy and then everything the
whole discussion was overtaken by what
was going on with with oil markets. I
think we really do need to have some
really close focus on that underlying
momentum before they can decide is
policy really in the right place.
>> It is Monday which means it's merger
Monday and it comes at a time where
despite some of the uncertainty we've
seen capital markets incredibly uh
robust. Fox the latest news. Fox is
planning to buy Roku for $160 a share in
a cash and stock deal. Goes on to say
that Fox expects the deal to close in
the first half of 2027 and Fox will
retain, I believe, about a 73% control
of the combined company. This comes
after the SpaceX IPO. It comes ahead of
a whole host of deals that people are
expecting. You see bankers incredibly
enthusiastic talking about how this
might be a record year, a banner year in
all sorts of different areas. How much
does that potentially affect the Federal
Reserve in how they look at markets, how
they look at financial conditions, how
they look at whether they truly are
restrictive?
>> I mean, I think that's a great question
and this could be part of the shift in
personnel and thinking with Kevin Wars
as chair. Uh, you know, I would say in
standard academically trained economist,
somebody like Ben Bernanki would look at
everything that's going on with mergers
and see that as a result of the economy
and and and other things going on in the
economy. you know, Kevin spent a lot of
time talking to investors, talking to
people in markets, and so could think of
that overall sentiment that the the wave
of of M&A and that sort of thing as part
of the sentiment that's going on that
might be driving some of the the the
momentum in the economy. Uh I don't
think it's going to be a watershed where
it's sort of going to be all in one
direction or the other, but it does come
down to at times like this where you're
trying to get the signal, tease out the
signal of where the economy is going, do
you lean a little bit more on some data?
Do you lean a little bit more on other
data? I think that's part of what we
need to learn as we see this turnover
and leadership at the Fed.
>> How much is AI driving some of the
inflationary impulse given that they are
able to raise, you know, trillions of
dollars of capital and invest it in
assets that seem to be endlessly uh
increasing in prices.
>> I mean, I think there we're seeing lots
of measurement questions coming up.
There's this discussion of so-called
chipflation. Uh but even within that the
question has the BLS always got things
right between software chips in terms of
the price indexes. Uh I think the real
key here for the inflationary side of
things is more that overall momentum in
the economy. It is undeniable how much
uh capex spending there is going on from
AI and I think that's leading to things
like more construction that's leading to
a lot of imports for the for the the
chips and things like that. But it is
helping to sustain the momentum of the
economy. And for me, the real staying
power for the inflation isn't going to
be our chips prices going up. It is
going to be is that momentum in the
economy with a fairly low unemployment
rate is that the thing that's going to
sort of keep inflation core inflation at
3% or higher.
>> Something I was thinking about this
weekend, especially as a number of the
tie-ups start coming to the foreign
companies get bigger and bigger. Are
more consolidated companies, bigger
companies, good for the inflationary
backdrop or bad for the inflationary
backdrop? Do they have greater pricing
power or do they have greater
efficiencies of scale that could
potentially lower prices for consumer?
>> Yeah, I think I think all of the above
could be true and at different points of
a business cycle. Right now, our sense
is that we have we're we're getting back
to a point where there's going to be a
little bit more discipline with respect
to the ability uh- with with all of
those sorts of things with pricing
power. And so I I think we are looking
for some disinflationary
paths through over time primarily as
tariffs have run their course, but we
think overall we're going to settle back
down to a little bit more stable
inflation.
>> Seth Carpenter, always wonderful to see
you. Thank you so much for being with us
this morning. Seth Carpenter there of
Morgan Stanley. And as we were just
mentioning, there is of course mergers
on mergers Monday. We have Fox buying
Roku for $160 a share. The tieup
continuing with this trend that we've
seen, which is media consolidation so
far in 2026.
>> Yeah. And their streaming devices of
course helped usher in era of digital
home entertainment. Um, we did report on
this on Friday that they were looking to
potentially sell to a bigger media
company and their shares were up. Fox is
down this morning, but Roku shares rose
as much as 24% on Friday. So, the market
certainly likes this in terms of what
Roku is doing.
>> Yeah, right now we're seeing a whole
host of other transactions being
announced as well. It all comes amid a
backdrop of strength in markets. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your bloom brief with
Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. Senator Mitch McConnell
was admitted to a hospital Sunday
morning. According to a spokesperson for
the senator, he is quote receiving
excellent care. No details about his
condition were made public. McConnell,
84 years old, will retire when his
current term ends in January.
A shakeup in the media space. Fox is
buying streaming and devices company
Roku for a deal valued at $160 per
share. The deal values Roku around $22
billion. It's expected to close in the
first half of 2027.
President Donald Trump threatening 100%
tariffs on French wine unless President
Mu eliminates France's digital tax on US
tech giants including Amazon, Apple, and
Meta. The threat coming ahead of this
week's G7 summit in France. That is your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, Vonnie. Up next, reaching a peace
deal.
>> We just made a great settlement of
the war with Iran. They've all approved
the deal. Everybody's approved the deal.
Now we'll get it finished up and
hopefully that'll be done.
>> Henry Trees Eva Partners joins next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
Enthusiasm this morning as there is a
truce reach between the US and Iran. You
can see stocks and bonds rallying across
the world with a sense that maybe the
straight of vermoose actually will open.
A lot of thorny details to get worked
out. Nonetheless, the uh stated aim is
to get the straight of vermoose back
open as soon as Friday. Up about 1 and
a3% on the S&P ahead of the open. You've
got dollar weakness. Uh you've got Euro
strength 116 up about a third of a
percent and you could see yields
plunging around the world although off
some of the earlier lows down a little
bit less than four basis point on the
10-year 4.4% and the whole reason why is
because of the story in crude where you
see a 4.4% plunge in WTI down to $8026
under surveillance this morning reaching
a peace deal.
>> We just made a great settlement of
the war with Iran. They've all approved
the deal. Everybody's approved the deal.
Now, we'll get it finished up and
hopefully that'll be done. They will not
have a nuclear weapon. They've agreed to
that.
>> Here's the latest. The US and Iran
saying they have reached an interim
agreement to reopen the Strait of
Hermuz. President Trump stating that the
strait would reopen effective on Friday.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joining us
from Geneva ahead of the president's
expected arrival for the G7 summit.
Tyler, how much is this agreement
overshadowing everything at the G7 this
year?
>> Lisa, it's definitely dominating the
conversation and that is because of
course the straight of Hermuz impacts
all of these allies that are gathering
here in Europe, but we still have a lot
of big questions as you alluded to on
exactly how this deal is going to be
implemented. Though people familiar with
the matter do tell Bloomberg News that
Qatar is set to host both US and Iranian
delegations this week to try to hammer
out the final details to get a potential
signing ceremony over the line and done
this Friday here in Switzerland. Broadly
speaking, neither of the sides has uh
released the finalized text of what is
in this memorandum of understanding, but
the contours we've been tracking at this
point for weeks, including that the
ceasefire will be extended by 60 days
and we would see the straight of Hermuz
and the US lift its naval blockade
prioritized. But when it comes to how
Iran feels that its role is going to be
in terms of the straight going forward,
we had new reporting this morning from
Iranian state media that the strait will
remain toll-free for the first 60 days,
but then Iran plans to impose some sort
of fees related to navigation,
environment, and insurance services. And
then Lisa, another big sticking point
here is what is financial relief going
to look like for Iran? A senior
administration official who briefed us
before we got here on the ground told us
that those financial benefits would
acrue over time, but it is based solely
on whether or not Iran upholds its part
of the deal. We need to see what that
finalized memorandum of understanding
really looks like.
>> Lisa Kendall, thank you so much. And
Amarie, this has been a real question
going forward. How much will some of the
other countries be involved? Because one
of the criticisms at the outset of the
war was that the US was operating in
isolation or uh not necessarily in
concert with them. This time around, how
much is the truce involving some of the
other nations at the G7? Oh, a lot. I
mean, a lot of these G7 countries, I
mean, no one got a heads up, which was
an issue that bothered European allies.
Now, of course, they all want to see the
street of Hermoose open, especially
those in the United Kingdom and across
continental Europe because of how much
higher they are dealing with energy
prices. And they're saying there seems
to be some willingness to go help the
United States. Um, for some countries
though, they're going to want to see
more work being done on Israel and
Lebanon as well. So, this is the start
of what is going to be a messy few
months as they work out the details of
this deal.
>> Yeah, pretty heated exchange between BB
and President Trump over the weekend.
Henri Trees of Veta partner is writing
the 60-day extension of the ceasefire
with Iran is the last best chance for
quote stimulus from Washington before
the election. Henry joins us now. A more
skeptical take, but this is what a lot
of people are looking at in terms of the
political backdrop and how that's
influencing when this decision was being
made. Why do you say the last chance at
stimulus?
>> Yeah, I first of all, investors are
really looking for the president to do
something to juice the consumer before
the election. I get that question a lot.
People are thinking outside the box. Are
we going to get a payroll tax holiday?
Are we going to get gas tax suspension?
And Congress left town last week and
they're not coming back until the 23rd.
There are by my count 16 legislative
days between now and the August recess
and effectively we're then in the end of
September. So if there's anything that's
going to happen, we've run out of time
for a reconciliation bill. There is no
bipartisanship to be had um as I'm sure
y'all are very aware. And so if you were
going to do any kind of stimulus, it
needed to be in a third reconciliation
bill. And Senator McConnell and Senator
Collins kicked that to the curb last
week as well. So this is as good as it
gets. You know, if crude stays down in
the $80 range, that's great. But this is
the most relief that consumers are going
to see pre-election.
>> Speaker Mike Johnson also called on
Republicans to act on social security
reform before the midterms. What is
going to be the midterm election for the
Republicans? That's not exactly going to
work.
>> No, that is not even remotely going to
work. And also you can't touch social
social security via reconciliation. So
you need to get bipartisanship. And when
I talk to either Democratic staff on
ways and means or Republican staff in
Senate Finance, they are actually
unified in the view that nothing is
going to happen. Whether that's housing,
whether that's crypto, social security,
another reconciliation bill, we've got
what we're going to get. When it comes
to the Iran deal, potentially Congress
would have to okay some of the lifting
of these sanctions. And this goes back
to what happened with the Obama era and
the JCPOA. Do you see Congress giving a
green light if this administration were
to lift sanctions on Iran?
>> That's such a fascinating dynamic. Um
Lindsey Graham is very adamant that
Congress needs to approve whatever this
deal is. But all I think of is the
USMCA. There's also a very adamant view
amongst Senator Widen, chair, ranking
member of Senate Finance, that the
president needs to go through Congress
in order to reaffirm the USMCA or even
to withdraw. And the administration
totally disagrees. So when you speak
with the trade negotiators in Canada or
the trade negotiators in Mexico, they'll
tell you that there's a dis disagreement
between who they talk to on the hill and
the White House. And I think the
takeaway from the last 18 months or
whatever is the president is going to do
what he wants to do. And he's not going
to ask Congress for their approval of
this deal. Yes, you will need it for
sanctions relief, but they have other
ways to get around it. You've seen them
go to foreign nations and say, "We'll
unfreeze some assets that are held
overseas." They'll find a workaround. I
do not expect Congress to get to yes on
any deal.
>> This is the reason why I find the
attendance of the G7 meeting so
interesting this year. It isn't just the
G7 leaders. It is also Middle Eastern
leaders that want to have influence over
this deal in certain capacities. And
it's also the leaders of technology
companies including Anthropic that are
discussing some of these issues that
have been circulating to the four with
all of the leaders who are going to be
in those rooms. What do you make of the
recent crackdown on anthropic in
particular over in the UK on social
media and the fact that these leaders
are going to be in that room over in
France?
>> Well, it's just another opportunity for
the EU and NATO nations to have a
completely different view of how to tax
United States tech companies, how to
regulate United States tech companies,
what they can have access to or not. And
I think it kind of gets to the point you
were making earlier, Amory, which is
they get a say here. You're not doing
this in a vacuum. the EU nations, NATO
nations, they don't want to communicate
with Iran and have the straight be
closed and have to coordinate to get
through the straight of Hormuz. And that
is what the United States has created.
And with anthropic and tech issues as
well, these are parts of all the trade
agreements as well, whether there's
taxation possibilities and that puts
tariffs back front and center. And of
course, June 20, July 23rd, we need to
have that whole conversation all over
again. Specifically with Enthropic, do
you think this is the first salvo in a
true crackdown or a true enforcement
push when it comes to the AI buildout
from President Trump and this
administration?
>> Yeah, I think we're just at the very
start of AI regulation. Right now, the
way I think about it is pre-election and
post going between now and November 3rd,
the United States public and therefore
the political parties are just going to
talk about affordability. Immediately
thereafter, all the new surge of
lawmakers, of which there are 63, I
think they are AI focused. They are
regulation focused. They're going to
start with the consumer and children and
use that to carry a much heavier
regulatory weight that I think will be
the topic of the 2028 election.
>> Were you surprised on the export
controls on anthropic that we had over
the weekend given the fact that this
administration for the most part wanted
to let AI companies have intense
competition and really let the sector
rip? It it seems very extreme. I know
that the industry is treating it as very
extreme. Um when you have those late
night, very muted details and no leaks.
That's how you know I think that
something very serious is going on. Um
but Congress is going to want to weigh
in there. They will not at all this
summer and pre-election, but I think as
soon as we get to November 4th, they're
going to want all the information there.
Henry Trees, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Henry Trees of
Vader Partners. And interesting that
this regulation comes after anthropic
CEO Dario Modai actually requested some
regulation from Washington DC and he
wanted guard rails with the DoD. So it's
very interesting that now he's or
anthropic is putting out statements that
they're upset about it. There's a nuance
this as well. Uh there is reporting that
two days before the model's public
release the Amazon CEO raised concerns
to the White House about the ability to
bypass the model's guard rails. So it's
other people in the industry raising the
alarm, raising their flag to the White
House and saying this might be more
dangerous than even you expect.
>> Yeah. The idea is that Mythos was
unlimited released to just a number of
companies. Fable was released more
widely and people figured out a way to
get around those safeguards that were
put in place to have wider distribution
of Fable 5. We'll be talking about this
plus SpaceX coming up. Noah Weissberger
of BCA research warning about that
SpaceX SpaceX IPO saying it could spark
some concerns for future deals. Plus,
Yahara Anand with your morning movers.
Fox Corp announcing plans to buy Roku.
The consolidation in the media sector
heating up. Fox shares lower by 12%.
Well, it's been an on again offagain
exercise when it comes to a deal between
the US and Iran. Headlines swaying
markets. one way or another. This
morning feels different and I think you
can get that sense in the moves in
equities, in the moves in bonds. Let's
start with stocks. You could see a
general enthusiasm, not necessarily a
guns ablazing. Oh my goodness, this is
really it. But a sense that yes, there
is resolution and you could see this
being led by the Cosby, which has been
the biggest leader in times of
volatility on the way up and on the way
down. It closed up 5.2%. In the US, it
also is those more highly betalike
stocks like the NASDAQ up at 2.2% with
enthusiasm around big tech. But you're
seeing the broadening out too with the
Russell 2000 and S&P futures up about 1
and a.5%. The DAX up 1.4%. When you look
into the bond space, you could see
yields falling dramatically across the
world. In the US, you could see yields
lower by about four basis points on the
front end to 4.04%
ahead of that Fed meeting on Wednesday.
Kevin Worsh getting perhaps a bit of a
reprieve if they do believe that oil has
been the main driver of inflation. And
it really is all about oil. And when you
take a look at oil, it is down about 5%
globally. You can see that on Brent down
5.2%, WTI down 5.6%. We're talking about
the lowest levels that we've seen in AMH
going back to early March.
>> And it's kind of crazy given the fact
that at this moment the trader for moose
is still technically closed. What is
interesting though is we have seen more
vessels and product get out. On Friday I
was in Houston. Secretary Wright told me
about 7 million barrels a day the
administration thinks is getting out.
The Chevron CEO is a little bit more
conservative. He says he thinks it's
more like 3 million barrels a day. And
that was before the announcement of this
deal. So this deal is not just
signifying that the straight of moose is
going to be open but already we saw
actual movement before that which is why
the markets are really welcoming all of
this news. And of course, we also have
merger Monday with a whole host of being
deals announced two hours away from the
cash open. Here are your morning movers
with Yahira on end. Yahihra, hi Lisa.
Well, we start off with SpaceX. Shares
are rising nearly 5% in the pre-market
as it heads into its first full trading
session as a public company after its
blockbuster debut. And it's getting a
boost from some comments from Elon Musk
saying that SpaceX could generate uh by
2031 $1 trillion in revenue. That would
be a dramatic leap from the $19 billion
in revenue it posted last year. And as
you were mentioning, it is a risk on
mood market. uh this morning after US
after the US and Iran said that they
agreed to a deal to end the war that is
helping to fuel gains in the higher beta
names in the market like Micron and
SanDisk. Micron is up 8.2% now and as
you said some merger Monday uh deal news
this morning. Fox is falling 13% in the
pre-market while Roku just started
trading minutes ago. It is up 2.3% after
being halted for this news that Fox has
agreed to buy the streaming platform.
Um, and it will have a roughly 22
billion dollar valuation. This gives Fox
access to 100 million households. And as
you mentioned earlier, it's the latest
sign of media consolidation with just
last week the DOJ approving Paramount's
deal to take over uh take over Warner
Brothers. Lisa,
>> thank you so much.
on our radar this morning. The US and
Iran reaching an interim agreement to
reopen the Straight of Hermuz and halt
the war. Officials from both countries
will meet in Switzerland this week to
formally sign the deal, which is
expected to happen on Friday. Meanwhile,
top anthropic personnel meeting with the
White House after the Trump
administration limited access to Mythos.
The government ordering Anthropic to
disable access after discovering it's
possible to bypass the guard rails of
the Fable 5 AI model, which is the one
that was released more widely. And Elon
Musk out with a bold prediction for
SpaceX. The Tesla boss not only
expecting his rocket company to bring in
a trillion dollars in revenue by 2030,
but anticipating surpassing that figure
by 2031. as a reference. SpaceX brought
in just under $18 billion in revenue
last year. A pretty high bar to cross
given how quickly he expects to ramp up.
>> Definitely. This is an individual who
people believe in him and he believes in
himself. But look how different for some
context where he thinks the revenue is
going to be versus Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley. So Goldman had estimated
SpaceX revenue would be exceed $470
billion in 2030. Morgan Stanley projects
$330 billion. This is according to a
Wall Street Journal report earlier this
month. And Elon Musk is like absolutely
not. A trillion 330 billion a trillion.
Staying with SpaceX shares extending
gains after Friday's blockbuster debut
seeing Elon's Musk company close to a
valuation over $2 trillion adding
confidence in the AI boom. Mandep Singh
of Bloomberg Intelligence joining us
now. Mandep what's your take on this in
terms of the possibility to grow
revenue?
Well, you have to really believe in the
space economy to think that they can get
to uh 1 trillion. And what I mean by
that is not just you know on the compute
side what they have done with Enthropic
and Google which has added you know
almost $26 billion in uh annual
recurring revenue but that's lower
margin for me. The most attractive part
about SpaceX is you know their ability
to launch uh rockets and and the
Starship vision that they have laid out
where they could uh put almost 100 tons
in terms of you know uh the vehicle that
they're launching into space and uh keep
reusing it like we use you know
aircraft. So from that perspective the
vision is quite powerful but they have
to execute on that and show that orbital
compute will be a reality and that is
what will get them to 1 trillion in
revenue. It's not going to be X AI GRO
or X AI rental uh compute rental
revenue. It has to be that uh Starship
launch being successful and their
ability to you know put things into
orbit where orbital compute will be a
reality.
>> Who is SpaceX's biggest competitor? Is
it Blue Origin or is it Amazon,
Microsoft, Anthropic and OpenAI?
>> I mean on the model side it's clearly
you know the companies that you
mentioned but in terms of the space
launch I think that's where they have uh
real IP they are far ahead of everyone
else and if they have laid out this
vision of orbital compute they've shown
that with Starling that connectivity is
a reality the satellite connectivity and
they've been able to monetize it. It's
just the orbital compute part because it
requires much higher payloads. You want
to see whether they can actually launch
100 tons and that uh you know uh vehicle
is reusable and and they can monetize it
at at a rate that you know Nvidia and
all these companies are doing it with
terrestrial data centers.
>> Mandep Singh of Blumer Intelligence
always love getting your insights
especially now at a time of
unprecedented IPOs. Noah Weisberger of
BCA research writing, "We expect the IPO
wave to be a headwind to forward returns
and multiple expansion likely not a
catalyst for a sustained bare market."
Noah joins us now for more. Noah, great
to see you again.
>> Thank you very much.
>> So, let's start there. In terms of a
headwind, why do you see it as a
headwind and why does the market not
necessarily see it that way? At least
not yet.
>> So, at least not yet. There's a lot of
other things going on today in
particular. uh you know all eyes on the
bond market in my view like the June
mini pullback I think was a bond issue
or an inflation issue so let's put that
aside uh over the longer term what seems
to be a really interesting like pushpull
relationship between the markets
multiples and and IPOs the historical
pattern is that the market rallies
multiples expand that leads to a pick up
in IPO activity so even if we didn't
know about AI open AI and anthropic and
SpaceX we'd think IPO activity should be
picking up anyway on the back of the
market's own dynamic IC but once the
IPOs the big IPO waves come to market
historically that tends to then mute
forward returns and mute forward
multiple expansion. So that's a
historical pattern that forms kind of
the baseline for my own expectations.
The hard part is that the current wave
of IPOs as we see it is probably one and
a half or two times bigger than previous
peaks. So that's a historical pattern
but we're kind of out of history.
>> Part of the reason why is because
typically if you have big IPOs it drains
capital from other places. So people
have to reallocate away from certain
names. This time when we ask people
about that, they say, "Well, there's
just lots of cash. People can keep going
into some of these names without having
to sell some of the other tech gainers."
What's your take on that?
>> So two thoughts there. One from like a
supply demand perspective, right? At the
end of the day, this is supply and
demand for things. The things are shares
of stocks. Uh we've seen a bit of a
reduction in the supply from other
places. uh buybacks a little bit less
than in the past, but they're still
subtracting about one and a half percent
of market cap uh on an annualized basis.
Net issuance is negative. So that side
looks okay, not nearly enough to to
offset the big supply we're seeing from
the IPOs. But then in terms of the
demand, the easiest demand to keep track
of is on the passive side. So the people
who have to follow an index, when the
stocks get added to the index, they have
to sell. And even for OpenAI, which is
being added to a smaller index, we're
talking about less than a percentage
point of market cap and like a onetoone
relationship between what we can see in
terms of the passive reallocation and
the passive month monthly inflows. So
the passes are sucking up lots and lots
of of of cash dollars and that should
help to mitigate uh some of that force
selling if you will. So that doesn't
seem to be a red issue, but that is kind
of where this happens. You think the
broader risk is rotation when it comes
to these massive IPOs?
>> Yeah. So that was the other uh the other
I think the big issue is that I think
people do have and you know I thought
your question was great about what is
SpaceX like who is its competitors?
>> All of the above. Right.
>> All of the above. And certainly when we
get to open AI and anthropic one of the
things that we've been noting when we've
been looking at the AI trade is that
about a third of some of these
hyperscalers a third of their income is
now other income which is essentially
their exposure to some of these preIPO
names. So investors already own some of
this exposure from a risk perspective.
Do they want it in a pure play? Would
they rather just own the the stocks
themselves? Do they want to own the
correlation to it? And that I think
would be interesting to see. You know,
do you want the pure play or do you want
the derivative?
>> How are you thinking about what the
United States did in terms of the export
controls on anthropic over the weekend?
>> So I think that is beyond the IPO issue.
I think that hints to where the
political landscape is going. So, um, we
have a a populist era that seems to be
entrenched, whether it's a Republican
administration or a Democratic
administration in 2028. We have a sector
that's in the middle of a super cycle.
We have companies that are, you know,
the analogy to me is is um the
integrated in in the in the uh the
railroad integrators or oil integrators
a century ago uh that are generating
great profit. So, I think there will be
ham-handed ways that politicians will
look to rein that in
>> if it's so dangerous and so good they
had to pull it back. Is that almost
bullish for the anthropic IPO?
>> So, it does tell you there's some great
models out there that get get added. You
know, I think we're still learning how
these add into you know software
companies how they get integrated into
the system and so we still think there's
a runway even for some of the popular
parts of the market. I think some of the
near-term dynamics maybe broaden that
out and there are some rotation risks I
think from the IPOs themselves.
>> Just to build on Amy's point there,
there is a theory that this actually is
really good for Anthropic uh in part
because they don't have to spend as much
money on these really intensive
programmings and this really intensive
large language models that eat up a lot
of energy and they can put it toward
other things, let alone prevent others
from potentially competing. How much are
they looking to Washington for that type
of guard rail to give them a leg up in
the competitive dynamic but also when it
comes to just where to focus their
energies the idea of actually
disseminating in a useful commercial way
rather than some of the hopes and dreams
about intelligence
>> right I mean I think that's an
interesting pivot where and and and
we'll see when they come to market and
they have to actually face quarterly
reporting and I think that's the other
element of the IPO cycle which is it
speaks to the quality of these companies
that they want to face that scrutiny
But it does give them the ability to to
um operate like not not a hopes and
dreams company as you say and maybe does
that trim the multiple a little bit? I
don't know if you have a strong growth
profile that's not that that's I don't
want to say slow and steady that's high
and steady. I think that attracts
capital attracts a multiple which is
where we are now.
>> Just want to finish with aside from NIX
and World Cup discussions over the
weekend. A lot of people were wondering
uh who came into my orbit what's the
deal with SpaceX? Is it a bubble or is
it the sign of an incredible future to
come that we just aren't envisioning?
>> I mean, that's what the, you know, price
to sales would tell you it is, right? I
mean, it's like 95 times versus even the
other expensive companies that are
already in the index are much, much
lower. Uh, it is exciting to speculate
about that. Um, you know, I don't think
I'll get to Mars in my lifetime, but you
know, it the one thing I will say is
across his portfolio of companies, Elon
Musk is able to really think in ways
that that didn't seem possible prior to
him thinking it. How much are you
willing to pay for it and how much
volume attached to that? Those are hard
questions that the market will answer
for us now that we have it another
another one of his companies in the
public.
>> No, wonderful to see you. Thank you so
much for being with us today. That's
Noah Weisberger of BCA Research. Right
now, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your bloomer brief
with Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie, Lisa, thank
you. Former Federal Reserve Governor
Steven Myron returning to the private
sector. Axios is reporting Myron is
going to Hudson Bay Capital Management.
He says he looks forward to helping
clients navigate a quote dynam dynamic
economic environment.
Steven Spielberg's Disclosure Day won
the weekend box office. The movie
grossed $44 million in ticket sales in
the US and Canada. The film about a
cover up by the US government of the
fact that aliens have lived on Earth
since at least 1947 ranks among
Spielberg's best openings in history.
The 2026 FIFA World Cup officially in
full swing. The United States men's
national team kicked off group play by
defeating Paraguay 4 to1. Elsewhere,
Germany and Sweden delivered massive
blowout wins while Spain begins their
quest this afternoon. That is your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa. Thank you so
much, Bonnie. And just a note, uh you
could see that the World Cup games are
really heating up and Jonathan Pharaoh
is off this week. Just want to point out
correlation, not causation, but you
know, that could be something one could
infer.
>> It's very true. And and Brazil played
this weekend. I don't even know why
we're doing World Cup. It was just the
start of World Cup. We should be basking
in Nick's glory right now.
>> I think you are basking. There is quite
a bit of basking going on.
>> I'm still on a high from the San from
San Antonio. It was just incredible.
>> You could feel it through the entire
city. Up next, we're going to be talking
maybe about the Knicks, but also
consumers holding strong.
>> We only have a couple more months of
savings with the consumer before you
start to see that consumer start of
breakdown. We're not talking about a
very bearish consumer outlook. There are
still elements of strength. We are not
talking about a complete collapse.
>> David Tinsley of Bank of America
Institute joins next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
The lift to markets has continued
throughout the session. You could see
enthusiasm for the possibility of oil
once again flowing through the straight
of her moose. Although pairing back just
some of the earlier gains a touch. S&P
futures up 1 and a3%. You could see the
euro gaining versus the dollar. Dollar
weakness pretty much across the board
except for maybe uh over in Japan which
is interesting ahead of the Bank of
Japan meeting later tonight into
tomorrow. and 10ear yields lower by
about two basis points taking back some
of the declines that we had seen earlier
4.46%
oil prices still down more than 5%. Uh
you can see New York crude WTI at $80.37
a question here about how much this will
give a boost to the consumer under
surveillance this morning. Consumers
holding strong. We only have a couple
more months of savings with the consumer
before you start to see that consumer
start of breakdown. We're not talking
about a very bearish consumer outlook.
There are still elements of strength. We
are not talking about a complete
collapse. You're going to get more
resistance going forward on passing
through these additional price shocks to
the consumer. Here's the latest. A US
Iran agreement to reopen the street of
Hermuz set to further boost consumer
outlook after sentiment rose last week
for the first time in three months. The
Bank of America Institute consumer
checkpoint showing resilience despite
the war with total card spending rising
5.1% year-over-year in May saying
spending momentum is remarkably robust.
Underlying spending remains firm across
both goods and services. Joining us now
is David Tinsley of the Bank of America
Institute has been running the numbers.
David, can you talk about just where the
resilience is coming from that has been
maintained throughout the entire
conflict even before this truce was
reached?
Yeah, I mean I think it's pretty
remarkable the way the consumer has
powered through this period of high
gasoline prices. You know, when we look
at our data, card spending, total car
spending is up about 5%, but even
leaving gas aside, it's close to four
multi-year highs. Within that, it's
travel, it's restaurants, it's retail,
electronics, for example, general
merchandise. All of those areas are
areas of of overall strength. I think
>> at the same time, David, you note that
this is coming on cards on other uh
methods of borrowing. You're seeing the
savings account dwindle quite
considerably and wages really haven't
kept pace. How long can that continue?
>> Yeah, I mean I think that's sort of a
fair point. I mean what we are seeing
and I think this is a a promising sign
actually is that lower and middle inome
households wage growth has picked up in
our data over the last couple of months.
So lower income households in the Bank
of America data was around 1 and a.5%
their wage growth a few months back in
March it was up at 3 and a half%. So I
think if that trend continues which it
translates to a narrowing in the K the K
shape between consumers then I would be
you know relatively optimistic that for
sure as the savings come down a bit post
refunds it'll probably be a cooling in
consumer momentum but the degree of that
I would be you know fairly optimistic
on. David, are you seeing consumers
having to tap credit at the moment?
>> Well, you know, that's the kind of
headline, isn't it? But when we look at
our data, the share of spending that's
being done on credit as opposed to debit
is pretty much bang in line where it was
last year. And that's true across all
income cohorts, too. So, you know, maybe
just at the margin for some. So, one of
the things we note in the report is that
the share of households who are only
making the minimum payment on their
credit cards that's risen, but funnily
enough, so has the share of households
who are paying off the full balance
every month. So, it's a very kind of
nuance picture. Most people are fine,
but that's not to say there isn't a
little bit of stress in the tail, if you
like.
>> So, David, where's the push back coming
from? I hear what you're saying, which
sounds like a very resilient consumer.
At the same time, every single survey or
poll I look at shows a consumer that's
frustrated right now.
>> Well, you know, one of the things we see
in our data is that for low and middle
inome households, their spending growth
is ahead of their wage growth. And that
wasn't true last year. So, they are
feeling stretched uh right now. They've
got the refund checks to draw upon.
Potentially, they could put a little bit
more on credit. So there is uh there I
think they feel tension and one of the
ways they're that's translating into
their spending choices is through you
know trade down which we've discussed at
length trade down in groceries trade
down in restaurants etc. Uh but I think
going you know into sort of the second
half of this year and I suppose just to
say the World Cup's a bit a thing as
well isn't it? you know this this will
probably boost spending somewhat over
the summer months you know as we go
through all that then maybe at the end
of this year we'll see a cooling but I
think I feel that the I think the data
is saying that that that slowing needn't
be too abrupt.
>> David you said something really
important which is that wage growth was
starting to pick up particularly at the
lower end of the income sphere. Is it
starting to catch up with inflation?
Yeah, I think that's probably true just
about. So, our lower income wage growth
is around about three, you know, roughly
where inflation is. Uh, obviously
different households face different
rates. Lower income households probably
face in all honesty a slightly higher
rate of inflation, but it is just about
meaning that they're keeping their heads
above water now in terms of price rises.
Does that signify to you that the worker
is getting increasing leverage when it
comes to negotiations at a time where
people really are looking to that as a
tell of how pervasive some of the
inflationary forces could become?
>> Well, you know, one of the very tricky
things right now is whether this
apparent strength we've seen in the
labor market over the last few months,
you know, in payrolls also in our own uh
payrolls estimate has been rising very
strongly.
When we look at that data, it does seem
to be focused more on the lower income
end, which kind of does kind of kind of
complete the story of a sort of lower
income recovery. But at least some of
that hiring seems likely to be related
to the World Cup, for example. A lot of
it's in leisure and hospitality, etc. So
I think critical is going to be how the
labor market shapes up post World Cup
and whether we see some pull back in
terms of the very strong jobs growth
we've seen in the data.
>> David Tinsley of the Bank of America
Institute, thank you so much for being
with us and I will just make a note that
we actually are losing staff as a result
of the World Cup. Jonathan Pharaoh out
this week uh potentially to go watch. He
will be coming back next week so it's
not so we're losing him permanently. But
you know what a viewer writes in. You
know what else is this week? The US
Open. The golf
>> shinnok I believe in the Hamptons.
>> It's where is Jonathan Pharaoh this
week. It might not be football as he
would say. It could be the golf which he
loves.
>> Burning minds want to know. Look, this
is really the ultimate question for so
many different people which is how much
can wages start to pick up to allow
people to absorb the costs more easily?
You're already seeing some of that
trading down and clearly it's a concern.
It's been coming out in both polls as
well as consumer sentiment.
>> Yeah. You see a consumer that frankly is
just cranky. They do not want to keep
paying these higher prices. And how many
times have we been on this show and
people said, "Well, they have the tax
refunds." I feel like the tax refunds
have been spent multiple times since
January of this year. One person who's
not cranky is Amry Hardurn, who is
really still basking in the glow. Coming
up in the next hour, Liz Thomas of SoFi,
Dave Dassie of Goldman Sachs, Kathy
Bastansic of Nationwide, and Greg Battle
of BNP Paraba. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> We're at the beginning of a new frontier
here.
>> This is a broad-based demand for
capital. SpaceX orbital AI
infrastructure is a venture capital
style bet that's being treated as index
fund mature and certain.
>> The Musk premium is extremely
significant. It's critical.
>> Speculation is alive and well.
Expectations are very high and this
really sets up the stage for
disappointment.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks and bonds rallying
as the Iran and US reach a truce. World
leaders gathering in France to kick off
the 52nd CG7 summit and oil prices
plunging giving a reprieve to a new Fed
chair Kevin Worsh. Everyone's in a good
mood, including Anry Herd in her blue
and orange as people take a look at the
possibility that maybe after months we
could put this conflict to bed. Yeah,
putting the conflict potentially to bed.
at least getting an extension of a
60-day ceasefire and Iran is agreeing
that the treaty of Hermoose will open.
The details after that are going to be
incredibly challenging. Already Iran is
saying there's going to be some sort of
tolling that will happen between the
Iranian and Ammanis that is not going to
be acceptable to this White House or
Arab allies. And on top of that, what
happens with sanctions relieves? What
happens to oil waiverss? Will frozen
assets be lifted? What happens to
nuclear? Will they un will there be a
reconstruction program that Iran is
calling for? This is where it's going to
be a little bit more messy because you
have red lines that just don't align
between Tyrron and Washington. And
honestly, I think markets are sniffing
this out to some degree given that it
isn't necessarily all clear and you
aren't necessarily seeing the broadening
out and the outperformance coming from
pockets that you would expect, say
Germany or France and those markets
there, you are seeing the outperformance
continue from big tech following the
SpaceX IPO. And as you do get these G7
meetings taking place with the likes of
Dario Ahmadai and other tech leaders
joining them to discuss what could
potentially happen. A question here
about what their role will be given that
we've seen a bit of a percolation of
regulation coming to the four.
>> Oh, a massive percolation in terms of
export controls that the administration
put on anthropic models because they are
concerned with this getting into the
hands of adversaries and potentially
some customers that would use it
negatively. I think part of this G7 and
why the French president invited these
tech leaders because they want to be
educated and at the same time they want
to get on the same page with the United
States on how they're going to deal with
these AI companies. This is going to be
a massive week because you have of
course G7 going on in France. You have
uh the World Cup ongoing. You have
Amarie still basking in the Nicks win.
We have a parade on Thursday. We have a
parade on Thursday. Putting that aside,
we also of course have a slew of central
bank decisions really headed off by the
Fed on Wednesday. Kevin Warsh, it is the
first time as Fed shared that he will be
at this meeting and setting the tone. We
also get decisions from the Ricks Bank,
the Bank of Japan, Reserve Bank of
Australia, BOE, S&P, Nores Bank, etc. At
the same time, we get some data. We get
initial jobless claims as well as retail
sales. And then on Friday, we've got
this deal signing. all comes together
with this confluence of how do central
bankers respond to potentially
inflationary pressures from oil abating
but potentially inflationary pressures
from other places picking back up. Well,
I think for Kevin Morrison, you nailed
it. This is kind of a gift for him. He's
going to be able to say, "Well, we're
waiting for the administration to sign
this deal." And you've already seen how
oil prices have dropped sharply because
of this. We are at $80 a barrel for WTI.
That is a lot lower where people would
have thought. I think also something
else potentially helping the Fed and
this is what I spoke with Secretary
Wright with on Friday in Houston and the
Chevron CEO Mike Worth. There are more
barrels getting through the straight of
Hermoose right now. Some vessels are
turning off their transponders. Clearly
the United States is helping transport
some of these um protectively helping
them transport out of the straight of
Hermoose and through the Gulf of Oman.
So you are seeing potentially that story
become a lot easier for the Fed to say
at the moment we're going to be on hold
and we can look through this in the
future. Right now, uh, people are in a
good mood, at least if you base it, on
where the markets are trading this
morning. People, meaning Emory, up one
and a third percent on the S&P futures.
NASDAQ futures up 2.2% with an
interesting follow on from SpaceX. Those
shares flying. Russell 2000 up uh 1 and
3/4% following the bond market rally
that you're seeing around the world.
Yields lower as oil prices come in,
particularly at the front of the yield
curve, as Amory was saying, really
taking pressure off Kevin Walsh and some
of the other central bankers. 4.05%
on the 2-year. When you take a look at
what we're seeing in the oil space, you
are seeing some of the lowest levels on
oil prices that we've seen going back to
the beginning of March before the
conflict really kicked off with New York
crew WTI trading with an 80 handle.
Coming up this hour, Liz Thomas of SoFi
as a global relief rally lifts markets.
David Dassy of Goldman Sachs on
investing in the booming sports sector.
Maybe we'll talk about some of the
sports that have been dominating the
weekend. and Kathy Bastanic of
Nationwide looking ahead to Fed share
Kevin Worsh's first rate decision. We
begin this hour with stocks gaining. Oil
falling as the US and Iran agree to halt
hostilities. Liz Thomas of SoFi writing
this. We are still in a bull market.
Investors are still hungry for growth
opportunities and companies are still
willing to spend to create it. Rotations
can be healthy but they are rarely
smooth. Liz joins us now for more. Liz,
great to see you. Thank you for being
with us. Let's start with the concept of
lower oil prices and whether that
portends some sort of rotation into the
areas that haven't been gaining i.e.
other thing everything other than tech
or whether this really just causes
people to double down on the AI trade.
Well, I think it supports the rotation
that we started to see on or around June
2nd when we started to see the pullback
in many of those big tech sectors,
semiconductors in particular, and a lot
of the stocks that had done so well in
the 3 to four weeks leading up to that
point. So, I think lower oil prices and
lower inflation expectations, which
emphasis on the word expectations,
is going to fuel hopefully more of a
rotation into some other places. That
being said, obviously the SpaceX IPO and
the excitement that we saw around it,
the hype that we saw around it, and
frankly, the success of it on Friday is
driving a lot of a rebound in tech
stocks today and what we'll probably see
for the remainder of the week, barring
any big surprises from the Federal
Reserve.
>> Liz, are you surprised that we aren't
seeing a greater rally on the heels of
the truce that was announced between
Iran and the US?
>> Well, I don't think we've really had a
chance yet. So, it's possible that once
the market opens today and and if we get
confirmation that this will actually
reopen the straight of Hormuz because we
still have to wait a few days to see
that that's going to happen. I think
towards the end of this week and even
leading up to it if things continue to
fall in place, we will see relief in
certain areas that have been struck by
inflation fears and we'll probably start
to hear commentary about businesses
being less concerned about inflation.
But I want to make a point that I
alluded to in the first statement is
that the Federal Reserve is concerned
with inflation expectations.
Yes, of course, they look at the data as
it's reported, which is
backward-looking, but they are also very
concerned with expectations and making
sure that those expectations remain
anchored. So, oil prices coming down
certainly helps that cause and makes
Kevin Worsh's job on Wednesday slightly
easier than it was without this peace
deal.
>> Yeah, it brings down the temperature
just a little bit. At the same time, MK
is saying at this stage, no changes to
their operations. The the announced
agreement is welcome, but they need to
wait before they start moving uh you
know, some of these vessels through.
What is going to be for you the most
important aspect of this deal to learn
and you think potentially could be very
bullish for the market?
Well, when you look at what's most
important, I think the obvious answer
here is that the straight is reopened,
that oil starts to move closer to a
volume that it was pre-war. Yes, there
have been some more barrels moving
through the straight, but not nearly
what the world needs. And there have
been now 15 weeks of an oil supply
disruption. It doesn't necessarily start
flowing and reach its final destination
very quickly. So that's why I'm I'm sort
of hedging the commentary because it's
going to take a while for that supply to
come back online and there will still
undoubtedly be some disruption in
prices, some disruption in operations
for certain businesses. MK being an
example of a business that might be
disrupted by that at least in a
shortterm period. So, I think companies
are being careful to hedge their
commentary as well and make sure that
they're allowing for what still could
last as a price disruption for a couple
months to come.
>> As the market though starts to put this
behind behind us, and they almost have
been for a few weeks now, what's going
to be the biggest risk for you going
into year end?
>> The biggest risk here is is that we hear
some sort of commentary from tech
companies that they're slowing down
capex. I don't see that coming as a
likely scenario. But regardless of a
rotation in the market and cyclicality
that might return, this market is still
very dependent on the AI trade and
particularly now at this phase on the AI
trade proving productivity, proving
earnings and proving that it can start
to reach into other sectors and increase
productivity there. So not just
benefiting the tech sector. And that's
one of the reasons I've been talking
about health care. This still being a
good entry point. Health care has seen
decent return since that June 2nd time
that I talked about where technology
started to pull back. But I do think
healthcare can do well through the end
of the year. Looking forward to that
productivity gain and it serves as a
defensive growth sector particularly in
a time when midterm elections are coming
up. Liz, how concerned would you be if
there was a hawkish shift at the Fed
this week on Wednesday, despite the
expectation that Kevin Worsh will try to
take the most dovish approach to maybe
dropping the easing bias?
>> Well, with with one hike already priced
into the market, I don't think that
there would be too much of an
overreaction in the market. I think that
the Fed will do what they can to leave
flexibility in the statements, much like
Jerome Powell did on different
occasions, trying to leave the door open
to we will react however we need to
given the data. I think there's actually
a higher chance that Kevin Walsh has
already been expected to say something
hawkish, but he comes out and actually
says a few things that are more
doubbish. The other thing that I would
be listening for on Wednesday is for him
to make note of the fact that it's not
just interest rate policy that they plan
to affect. He has been very clear that
he wants the Fed balance sheet to be
lower and there is a chance that maybe
they use some of those tools rather than
interest rates to affect the market. So
that may even be seen as a dovish
comment if people start to price out the
idea of a rate hike. Liz Thomas of SoFi,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning ahead of a very busy week. City
groups Andrew Hollenhorst dropping this
note on the issue just as we were
talking saying this. The planned
reopening of the straight of Hummus and
ensuring ensuing drop in oil prices will
remove upside risk to inflation from
energy prices as a reason to pursue more
hawkish Fed policy together with last
week's cool core CPI reading turash tur
war can make a dovish case at this
week's FOM FOMC leaving eventual rate
cuts still on the table. If it's a
dovish cake case does that mean that
basically they keep the easing bias? I
mean, is that basically what city would
think that they were able given what's
going on, could they keep the easing
bias? I don't I'm sure everyone else on
the FOMC is there. Liz's point though is
an interesting one. We already have one
rate hike baked into the market through
the end of this year. Potentially, the
trade here could be more on the doubbish
side if there isn't necessarily some
sort of support on the committee to uh
get a sense that a rate hike truly is on
the table for later in 2026. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
bluer brief with Vonnie Quinn. Vonyie,
>> Lisa, thank you. The US and Iran
reaching an interim agreement to end the
war and reopen the straight of Hormuz.
Officials from the two countries will
meet in Switzerland to formally sign the
agreement Friday, setting the stage for
then 60 days of negotiations on the fate
of Thran's nuclear program.
Target naming Isaac Mizrahi as its first
creative director at large. The company
says Misrai will advise its design
teams, mentor young talent, and identify
new partnerships.
The New York Knicks are NBA champions.
The city holding its first ever ticker
tape parade for the team this Thursday.
Mayor Zoran Mandani saying he'll hold a
ceremony at city hall where his
administration will present the team
with keys to the city. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa, they already have
the keys to the city right now. Bonnie,
thank you so much. Okay, Emory, go
ahead.
>> It's just amazing. I think there's one
stat we didn't talk about this morning,
which was Jaylen Brunson's 15 points in
the fourth quarter, which I saw live in
San Antonio, which was the sixth burrow
on Saturday night. And the only other
individual that's ever done this,
according to ESPN, was in 1998, and that
was Michael Jordan. And obviously,
everyone knows he's the greatest of all
time. So Jaylen Brunson is an absolute
New York hero. And he did it. He did
what he said he was going to do against
everyone saying he couldn't do it. And
there was one New York Knicks radio
broadcaster that had this line that
honestly grown men were crying at. No
lead is too big, no guard too small. And
right now a lot of people are cheering
the legacy uh that Jaylen Bronson left
with his father as well. Up next, we're
going to be talking about this more and
the investment opportunity behind sports
because people are willing to pay a lot
to come together and to have these
experiencing. We're going to have the
morning calls plus Dave Dassie of
Goldman Sachs and investing in the
sports sector given what we saw over the
weekend. Not just the Knicks, also we
have the World Cup. Also, uh we have the
US Open. All of that uh coming up next.
This is Bloomberg.
space is kind of an interesting
opportunity. It's great that when SpaceX
lists um it brings a lot of eyeballs and
interest and good research to the
sector. It used to be just the domain of
governments. you know, space is really
well and truly now the domain for
commercial enterprise and uh that
democratization of space is what what
you've seen just grow tremendously.
>> That was the Rocket Lab president and
CEO Peter Beck after the monster IPO, a
record uh allowing SpaceX to become
nearly a $2 trillion company. Another
company making news this morning in the
tech sphere is Nvidia coming out with
its first bond sale, first high-grade
bond offering going back 5 years to
2021. The shares are off some of the
earlier highs. They had been up uh
significantly more. Now they're up 1.6%.
They're planning to sell uh this
particular series of bonds in seven
tranches with maturity spanning 2 to 30
years. This according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. It follows a
slew of different bond offerings from
the likes of Alphabet and Amazon as
everyone tries to load up and build out
to try to win in this race for AI. Time
now for the morning calls. First up, Key
Bank upgrading Rocket Lab to overweight,
seeing compelling opportunities across
the rapidly growing space sector. Next
up, City raising its price target on
Texas Instruments to $345 from 280,
citing recent price increases and
tailwinds from data center demand. Those
shares up three and a half%. And
finally, Needm lifting its price target
on Roku to $170,
seeing its acquisition by Fox is an
opportunity to create more value from
Roku's platform across a broader system
of devices. Those shares up 1 and 3/4%
had already rallied ahead of this on
rumors of deals last week. Meanwhile, we
are all Knicks this morning. The New
York Knicks winning their first NBA
title in 53 years, helping send shares
of MSG Sports to record highs as the
team closes in on a $10 billion
valuation. Dave Dazzy, global co-head of
the sports franchise and investment
banking at Goldman Sachs, writing, "The
sports market continues to grow and the
subsequent liquidity is having a
positive effect on teams and leagues."
Dave joins us now for more. Dave,
wonderful to see you. I'm sure it was a
big weekend for you as everybody focused
on their various sport of choice. I'm
curious how much you've seen the
investing world change around sports
over the past couple of years.
>> It's certainly been very dynamic and if
you want the really truly understand
what sports are like, just look at the
Knicks this weekend. Look at what
happened with the Hurricanes last night.
Just the sense of community, the sense
of engagement, the ability to really
bring bring a city together, bring a
region together. Um it's very very
powerful. And obviously with the World
Cup going on, we're going to see more of
that over the course of the next several
weeks here. So it's just it's a it's a
great great indication of the excitement
in terms of what's coming together. In
terms of the evolution of sports, it's
changed very dramatically uh over the
course last several years. We'll talk a
bit about institutional capital which is
coming into it, but fundamentally sports
is an asset class. We believe it's a
trillion dollar plus asset class. It
continues to be very very dynamic,
continues to grow at a very accelerated
rate. Um, and we're seeing increasing
pockets of capital that really want to
invest in the sector.
>> You've seen family offices, you've seen
others that have IPOed and potentially
have a lot of cash. You have a lot of
potential out there for people to get in
on this. You talk about there has been
institutional adoption, particularly
from people looking for an inflation
hedge. Can you explain how sports is an
inflation hedge?
Um fundamentally as you're right we're
seeing uh a lot of interest across
really three different groups of um
three different groups of buyers but um
you can aggregate audience um media
rights are growing pretty dramatically
uh given that that that sense um it's
something people want to be part of and
so again it's back to this community you
have pricing pricing leverage uh you the
ability to um you really grow and for
the North American leagues and the many
leagues around the world you do have um
some level of uh governance um in
essence uh salary cap in place where you
have some level of control in terms of
the cost but there are many many
different ways you can grow uh from a
revenue perspective and so um we are
seeing that as an inflation hedge you're
also hearing this hedge against AI and
the ability to um in essence right it's
real it's live it's in it's in person
it's dynamic it's direct to consumer and
so all these ways that it's it's not
being disintermediated by AI and what
we're seeing in so many other sectors of
the economy.
>> If you have an interest in to invest in
sports, how do you know when to time it?
>> Well, timing can be a little bit, you
know, challenging because they're not
for sale all the time. We think about
sports across three different
fundamental verticals. So, it's teams
and leagues, it's sports adjacencies,
which is all the uh uh dynamics of
companies that grow up around sports. So
think gaming uh ticketing, data
analytics businesses, live events
businesses, talent agencies, apparel
companies, etc. So that flywheel and
then infrastructure. So infrastructure
is really stadiums, arenas, uh and all
the infrastructure that goes around it.
We're seeing strong interest from
institutional capital across all three
of those different verticals. In terms
of the teams, there are multiple ways to
get in and we're seeing really three
different pockets of capital that are
strong interest. though your your
typical sports owners, the control
owners, the multi-billionaires, the
people who can really um buy and control
those teams, family offices, these
multi-billion dollar family offices
around the globe have a strong interest
in sports both from a uh just an
interest and passion in the team, but
you're also from an asset class
allocation in terms of these are very
very long duration assets. You talked a
lot about the Knicks, but many of these
teams have been around 50, 75, 100
years. They'll be around 75 100 years
from now. And so uh the duration of the
investment lines up really well. And
then institutional capital, more
traditional private equity. We're seeing
a lot of structured capital come into
the sector. Uh and then we're also
seeing um in essence insurance capital,
sovereign wealth fund capital. Again,
some of this longer duration capital
really has an interest in terms of
finding its way into the sector.
>> Well, I'm excited about the Knicks, not
just because I was at the game five on
Saturday where they won the
championship. I heard Dolan speak. Do
you think now's the time potentially
given how Madison Square Garden is
trading as a stock given the fact it's
the first championship in 53 years? Do
you think he would actually sell even
maybe a minority stake?
>> I think it's really hard to comment on
on any of that, but you know,
fundamentally the valuation uh in the
intro you talked about how it spiked up.
That's been one of the interesting
things is the public companies uh around
sports have traditionally traded at
significant discounts to a private
market type valuation. that gap has
obviously narrowed pretty dramatically
uh with respect to the Knicks and the
Rangers. Um but you know look these are
really unique situations. Uh there have
been, you know, millions of Knicks fans
for many, many years, I think, coming on
the back of this championship. Uh the
Knicks fans, right? There will be
millions more Knicks fans. And as we're
st first starting to get into this
direct to consumer opportunity set and
better data and the ability to manage
these teams um more as professional type
businesses, there's significant upside
for all these franchises and certainly
franchises in these big major cities
that can not only be uh city brands,
regional brands, national brands, but
truly global brands. I think there
continues to be a lot of upside and
that's why you're seeing a lot of this
capital uh have an interest in terms of
trying to get into the sector.
>> Dave, I'd love your thought on pricing
of tickets. We've talked a lot about
that on our show, whether it's the
Knicks tickets that got pretty uh pretty
intense in terms of pricing or the World
Cup ticket pricing. From an investment
perspective, would you rather see a
building in the fan base and sort of the
popularization or would you rather see
just maximizing the financial
opportunities at different events?
>> I think it's a combination of both,
right? Certainly ticket prices have been
driven. You go back to your question
around inflation. And so I think individ
each individual team, each individual
league is trying to do this in a very
dynamic way, which is trying to do both,
right? Which is provide a really premium
fan experience for those who are in the
arena. But I think what's different
today than it may have been five or 10
years or so ago is this ability as a fan
to engage with this content the way you
want to. Just look at all the watch
parties around New York, around the
region. Certainly, you look at the World
Cup, they're watch parties in cities
that aren't even hosting games uh around
the globe. And so fans have an ability
to engage in the content uh and owners
of that content really have the ability
to drive expand that fan base. And then
digitally again the technology uh we're
just at the nent stages of this but the
ability for fans uh to engage be on the
other side of the world but feel like
they are part of that community and
actively engaged in that community is
really really unique. Uh very very
powerful. Uh, and I think you're going
to start to see sports teams talk more
about um lifetime value of a fan as the
team and the individual get to know each
other better, lifetime value of a
family, uh, etc. It's a very, very
dynamic world. We think there's a lot
of, uh, really exciting growth ahead.
>> Dave Dassi of Goldman Sachs, thank you
so much. Dave Dassie there, uh, helping
to run their sports effort. Coming up,
we're going to be speaking with Kathy
Bansic of Nationwide on why the markets
may be overestimating odds of a Fed
hike. That's next. This is Bloomberg.
We do see markets that are embracing the
idea of a truce between the US and Iran.
We are getting some commentary from Vice
President JD Vance speaking uh just
moments ago talking about this truce
saying that the deal gives the US
enforcement over the Iranian nuclear
program saying that there already has
been traffic going through the street of
Hermuz. This is something that AMH has
been talking about and reported on with
Chris Wright. Also says that there has
been misreporting about the US Iran deal
that they hope to release text of the
Iran deal later this week. That's going
to be incredibly important because right
now what you see is the White House put
out what they think the terms are versus
what the regime thinks the terms are.
Also the vice president saying he
expects her moose will be open toll-free
in the long term. He expects that. That
is not what Iran expects. Iran expects
some sort of monetary receipts when it
comes to tolling or being able to allow
vessels to go through. When JD Vance
also talks about ships are enjoying more
traffic. I spoke to Secretary Wright
about this in Houston. He says they see
an uptick of 7 million barrels a day. 20
million barrels a day is what flowed
through Straight of Hermoose before the
shutdown. He says it was coming to
around 15 million barrels a day. So he
thinks they're about half. I will say JP
Morgan has that number more at 5 million
barrels a day. The Chevron CEO told me
just after that they see it more like 3
million barrels a day. But it does
signal that more product is getting
through.
>> Yeah. potentially was one of the
catalysts for some sort of negotiation
agreement to try to structure some of
the discussions more significantly. In
the meantime, you are seeing a lift to
markets uh given the news of this truce.
Equities across the board rallying
particularly led by tech. NASDAQ up
2.1%.
Russell 2000 up 1.7% and S&P futures up
1 and a quarter%. We are one hour away
from the cash open. Let's get over to
Yahan for some morning movers. Yahra,
>> hi Lisa. It is M&A Monday. I saw that
Salesforce just announced a deal, but
take a look at Fox shares. They are
plunging 13% in the pre-market while
Roku is getting a boost on this news
that uh the the media giants agreed to
buy Roku in a cash and stock deal. Uh
valuing Roku at $22 billion. This will
give Fox access uh to more than 100
million streaming households and it's
just the latest uh sign of consolidation
across the media industry. Speaking of,
we are seeing Paramount Sky Dance shares
rising three and a half% in the
pre-market on a major win. The Justice
Department clearing um its $ 110 billion
takeover of Warner Brothers Discovery,
saying the deal is unlikely to harm
competition or consumers. However, a
group of state attorneys general uh led
by California is still preparing to
block the deal. So, there be may be
another hurdle there. And as uh SpaceX
heads into its first full trading
session, we are seeing shares rising
nearly 6% in the pre-market after its
blockbuster debut. Getting a boost from
comments by Elon Musk over the weekend
that SpaceX could generate uh over $1
trillion in revenue by 2031. That would
be a dramatic leap from the nearly $19
billion it generated last year. Lisa,
>> so much. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve
preparing for its first rate decision
under new chair Kevin Worsh. Bloomberg's
Enda Curran joins us now from
Washington. Enda, great to see you. A
real question about what will be the
focus at this Fed meeting. We have, of
course, a statement of economic
projections coming out of the Federal
Reserve. Of course, we'll also hear from
Kevin Worsh. We haven't really heard
from him, at least not to directly
address to the market since he took this
spot. What's on the docket for you?
>> Well, exactly, Lisa. It's the first time
to really hear from Chairman Mor since
he took over the job. I think maybe two
threads on it. One is policy, one is
politics. On policy, what signal does
the chairman send on inflation,
especially in his post meeting press
conference? We know they're not expected
to change policy, but does he come
across as hawkish? Does he sound the
alarm on inflation? Or does he try and
thread that line, not using transitory,
per se, but you know, try and calm fears
around where inflation is headed,
especially on the back of the Iran news
over the weekend. So inflation and
signaling on that is number one. Then
number two on the political side of it,
what signal does he send about change at
the institution at the Fed? Does he does
he spell out a road map for the kind of
regime change he spoke about in the
runup to get the job? Does he offer any
details on that during the press
conference or does he not? So I think
plenty to look out for on the policy
side in terms of signaling on inflation
and see if he gives us any color on the
on the political side in terms of what
changes he wants to make at the Fed. And
a big criticism by Krevin Worsh of the
Federal Reserve back in 2011 when he was
leaving the board, but also subsequently
has been the use of the balance sheet.
Are we expecting to hear anything on
that front this week?
>> It's an interesting one. It was
obviously the idea of shrinking the
balance sheet, Lisa, was a central part
of Chairman Worsh's commentary and the
buildup to getting the nomination for
the Fed. Since then though both from
chairman war himself during his
confirmation hearing and and people in
Fed world everyone has been kind of
making the point that look a there's no
urgency in shrinking the balance sheet
and if he were to do that it has to be
done very methodically very slowly very
cautiously you have to talk to the
market and everything else sounded out.
So if he does give any direction on the
balance sheet it would be surprise if he
if he leans into some kind of a fast
process that catches markets off guard.
He will want to take this steady as he
goes and certainly from his very first
meeting which sets the tone for his
leadership, he won't want to get markets
offside.
>> And a current, thank you so much as
always for being with us. We'll be with
you uh throughout the week as we
anticipate and then analyze that Fed
meeting. Kathy Bastanic of Nationwide
writing, "We expect no change to the
policy rate at next week's Fed policy
meeting and we see the bar for
tightening as quite high." Kathy joins
us now. Kathy, great to see you. I am
curious what you think about this latest
move with the truce between Iran and the
US and how that factors into the
calculus at the Federal Reserve this
week.
>> Well, thank you Lisa. Happy to be here.
Um so I think this allows oil prices,
gasoline prices to continue ease lower
and um maybe even more quickly than we
expected frankly, but um I think this
takes pressure off the inflation picture
assuming this continues as as kind of
advertised. Um and we do see gasoline
prices. that's been the main factor
pushing up inflation and we really
haven't seen it spill spill over to
other goods and services and the core
measure uh in a large way you know jet
fuel diesel but beyond that it's been
very focused on energy
yes and people also look though at the
housing picture and you actually did see
a tick up in owner's equivalent rent you
did see a pickup in housing inflation
that otherwise had been going in the
opposite direction small one month I
know but there are signs that there
other pockets of inflation, whether it's
AI, whether it's the fact that wages are
starting to tick up on the margins, a
good thing, not still not really at
inflation yet, but a sense of strength
that potentially this could really boost
given the fact that people see consumers
pockets as being relatively flush and
and willing to to be deployed. Yeah, I
think these are all good points. Um I I
guess what I see is those lining up to
make inflation maybe a little sticky on
the downside, but it doesn't mean that
inflation's going to stay elevated. And
I think that's a key difference. Um I
don't think the Fed is going to be
looking to cut rates anytime soon,
right? I think they're on hold for a
very long period of time, probably into
next year, but I just see that bar for
raising rates is pretty high. I just
don't see broad-based signs that the
economy is overheating. There little
pockets like you said, we're keeping an
eye on owners equivalent rental
inflation. Um but I don't suspect that
we're going to get another 3/10 410
increase next month. I think we we may
have troughed right on on disinflation
in the rental sector, but it doesn't
seem like we're picking up is my point
outside of energy.
>> Could they keep the easing bias now?
>> I don't think so. I think that's that's
baked in.
>> Yeah, that that I think has to go. Uh
it's already been, you know,
communicated to the markets and and it
is the right thing to do, right? It's uh
very
>> it's communicated to the markets by
other members, not the Fed chair.
>> This is true. This is true. So, he's
boxed in a bit, right? And I think it
was based on their real beliefs, the the
different Fed officials, but in effect
it does sort of box him a bit. Um I do
think he'd have a hard time arguing
against that, frankly. Um and he himself
uh may just want to hold the line
against the idea of a rate hike. That's
probably where he's going to come in on
that.
>> Who is Kevin Worsh? I know this sounds
like, you know, well, the real Kevin W.
>> Well, I mean, we're talking whether it's
Eminem or a biopic. There's this sense
that we don't know the Kevin Worsh in
his current iteration. We know who he
was back in 2011 and we know who he was
in the hearings and those are two
different personalities with two
different goals about what to do with
the Fed.
>> True. And once you're in that seat, it's
a lot different, right? It's a lot more
responsibility and things that you have
to think about and worry about. Uh and
then of course some pressure, outside
pressure as well. So, but I think he's
been pretty clear, at least he's
formulated his view that Fed should be
communicating less, right? So, I'm going
to be listening very closely,
ironically, listening to his
communication to see what he wants to do
about communication, right? So, that
press conference really going to be
quite interesting. And does he submit a
dot plot estimate, right? Because he's
been against it, right? He, you know, if
he wants to stay true to his argument,
he shouldn't he shouldn't.
>> I love that you said this because I feel
like people have been rolling my eyes as
I've been pushing this. I think it would
be a big deal if he doesn't submit a
dot. I think it would be a big deal but
it would be consistent with his view
right that and it's a sign right and
even chair pal has struggled with the
dot plot I mean I think we all do
frankly I think that everyone says that
if we get rid of the dots it probably is
a good thing considering that it's
essentially throwing a dart into dart
board that said there is an issue of how
you uh really display forward guidance
and a lot of that will come in my mind
what I want to see is does he lay out
artificial intelligence whether that's
disinflation some sort of you know
overarching guide to the way he sees the
world and how that will inform his
ability to either discuss Fed policy as
being restrictive or not restrictive,
etc. I mean, do you expect that type of
statement or do you think that it's
going to fit into the formula of the Jay
Powell type of press conference, at
least the statement?
>> You know, I don't think any of us knows
for sure what how it's going to play out
in the press conference. That's why it's
going to be so interesting, frankly. Um,
you know, he may refrain from getting
into too many details because he's sort
of suggesting the Fed's been
communicating too much. Does that mean
even at the press conferences, do we get
press conferences after every meeting? I
mean, there's just a lot of uncertainty
here. And how much detail does he want
to go into, as you said, does he really
want to dive in his first press
conference to talk about whether
monetary policy is restrictive enough
now or not? And trim mean, right? The
inflation trim mean, does he bring that
up? There's a lot that we have to watch
for. If there is less Fed communication,
does that tighten financial conditions?
>> Uh, it's a great question. Not
necessarily. What I think what it does,
it could go either way, but it's leaving
the markets more to interpret based on
the data where the Fed is going. And
that hearkens back like when I started,
I'm dating myself. Well, when Greenspan,
right, he would say less is more, right?
And the fact that he was afuscatory,
that was a good thing. He he
accomplished his mission if you heard
him speak and he no one knew exactly
where he was leaning. So that seems to
be where Worsh wants to go back to.
We'll see how that plays out.
>> Kathy Vzansic, thank you so much for
being with us. Wonderful to see you.
Kathy Bansic of nationwide ahead of the
Fed meeting and so many other Fed
meetings, I mean, do you think that the
other central banks, not Fed meetings,
but other central banks around the
world, do you think they feel like
they're overshadowed every time? The
Rick's Bank, the Bank of England,
>> you know, the Reserve Bank of of
Australia, you've got the Bank of Japan.
I mean, they're going to hike rates.
This is going to be action. They're not
going to do anything. They're going to
hold rates, but everyone's talking about
the Fed,
>> but the Fed is the central bank to the
world. What what the Fed does matters
more than any other central bank in the
world. And your last point is really
interesting, and Jonathan's been talking
about this. If Kevin Worsh decides he's
not going to be that active on the
communication circuit and going and
doing speeches, well, then he risks
having others define the direction of
travel at the Federal Reserve for him,
not himself. And that potentially is
going to be a real problem for him. And
if you have more uncertainty around Fed
policy, does that naturally create more
volatility? Usually more volatility is a
restrictive factor on markets and is
that kind of by design?
>> And I already see the president drawing
up potentially he's frustrated at the
end of the year his new name. You know,
it's too late Jay Powell and I'm sure
he's working up what he's going to call
Mr. Kevin Worsh.
>> Worry war.
>> Great hair, bad chair. I mean, that's
>> we're already trying to come up with the
names right now. Uh we're focused on the
week ahead and let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Bonnie Quinn.
Bonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. Big Tech's AI debt
binge continues. This time with Nvidia
looking to raise at least $20 billion in
its first high-grade bond offering since
2021. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, the chipmaker is issuing a
seven trunch bond sale with maturities
spanning two to 30 years.
The Carolina Hurricanes are your 2026
Stanley Cup champions. Carolina took the
series in six games after shutting out
Vegas 30-0, securing their first title
in 20 years. Head coach Rob Bindor
becomes just the 14th person to win the
cup as a player and a coach.
Sticking with sports, the New York
Knicks are gearing up for a ticker tape
parade to celebrate their NBA
championship. The parade kicking off
Thursday at 10 a.m. Eastern in Battery
Park. It will travel north on Broadway
to City Hall along the path known as the
Canyon of Heroes. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. Yeah, we've
been spending the whole day staring at
the Knicks Cup uh by Emory. I will just
note though, I am getting some call-in
uh some call-in notes about what the
nickname could possibly be. Wishy Worsh
is one that could be. Um but we're
anticipating what will be. I think at
some point if the president's
frustrated, he's not going to stop what
he normally does and he's going to go
after today off.
>> You were going to take today off,
weren't you?
>> I would have if John was here.
>> Up next, he's off with World Cup and the
US Open. Up next, setting you up for the
day ahead. Plus, Greg Battle of BNP
Paraba bracing for volatility after the
historic SpaceX debut from New York.
This is Lindberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
The path to a Fed rate hike in our view
was never going to be just about
inflation. And absolutely not just about
oil driven inflations. If consumers in
general feel freer to spend, they have
more disposable income to spend on
everything but gasoline, then just maybe
there's a a bit more resilience.
>> That was Seth Carpenter of Morgan
Stanley after a deal potentially will
embolden a consumer to keep on spending.
A lot of big tech companies are
emboldened this morning and just in
general when it comes to capital
raising. Yes, we got the SpaceX IPO. Uh
the debt market still continues to be
fertile ground for some of these tech
giants to raise money. Nvidia shares up
1.3% cretailing some of the earlier
losses uh in pre-market trading selling
about 20 billion at least $20 billion
from its first investment grade bond
offering in 5 years announcing it this
morning. There are seven tanches with
maturities spanning 2 to 30 years. Price
talk on the longest tener is a spread of
about 0.9 percentage point above
treasuries which is very very low. Just
to give you a sense right now the
average spread the extra yield over
benchmark rates on investment grade
bonds is about 7/10en of a percent. So
that means it's 0.72%.
This is close to the lowest level in
about a decade. Nvidia yes has a longer
trunch longer maturity than this selling
at just slightly above that. Right now
the market is wide open for these deals
>> and for the most part the market's
absorbing it. Investors are absorbing
all of this supply and we've seen this
from Alphabet as you mentioned earlier
from Amazon tapping every corner of the
debt market going around the globe to
find this to basically finance the
entire AI AI buildout and the compute
capacity that these companies are going
to need. Of course, I look at this
though and I start to get a little bit
worried about circular financing in
terms of all of these companies. They
need this money to invest in other
companies that are also tapping debt
markets to invest in their same c
companies, you know. Yeah, it's one big
uh happy investment raising process.
Counting down to the opening bell,
here's a trading diary for the week
ahead. Today, the G7 meeting in France
kicks off. Tuesday, we get a Bank of
Japan rate decision as well as RBA.
Wednesday, retail sales. A Fed rate
decision followed by a Fed share Kevin
Worsh press conference. People don't
know what to expect. Will he dot or
won't he? Thursday, another round of
jobless claims. And on Friday, US
markets are closed. Of course, there is
this deal that could be signed, so maybe
Emory will make her way back to the
studio. Uh they're going to be signing a
peace deal. She's looking at me in
horror. Meanwhile, SpaceX extending
gains following Friday's blockbuster
trading debut. Greg Bowel of BNP Paraba
writing, "When IPOs trade, there is a
flurry of activity in the first two
weeks. The selling flows and equities
that we expect over the next month
create a risk of high market
volatility." Greg joins us now for more.
Greg, great to see you.
>> Likewise.
>> So, how much do you see take uh in terms
of signal from the early trading in
SpaceX considering that a lot of people
thought that it was priced high and has
only gone higher? I think it's a pretty
healthy first days trading, but when we
go back and look at prior IPOs, the
range of outcomes can be very wide.
First days trading doesn't necessarily
give you too much in terms of signal.
>> At this point though, going forward,
what are you trying to glean from this
particular IPO given that people said
that it would set the tone for anthropic
and for open AAI, but also for the space
economy and also just in terms of how
robust markets are.
>> Yeah, I think we're in an environment
where liquidity is incredibly important
and gradually becoming drained. So how
these kind of capital raises are treated
by the market and traded is incredibly
important. We have a lot of liquidity
events coming up. So obviously we've had
the first day of trading. There are a
lot of liquidity events for the stock
over the coming weeks. How those trade I
think is important for the broader
market.
>> Which ones are you looking at? What's
coming up?
>> So I mean today we get the launch of led
ETFs. So it be interesting to see how
they affect the trading. Options trading
starts tomorrow. We then get a series of
index inclusion events. NASDAQ being the
most notable, which is over the other
long weekend, Fourth of July weekend in
the US.
>> It felt like SpaceX really not only hit
the bar,
>> they overexceeded. You're putting a
little bit of risk out there. You don't
think they're out of the woods yet?
>> Well, I think that when we look at IPOs
historically, you've seen plenty of IPOs
trade really well in the first week and
then struggle. Um, we look back at
something like Meta as one of the last
last large tech IPOs. traded one on the
first day, halfed over the coming couple
of months, then went up 200%. So my
message is very high volatility around
IPOs is normal.
>> The volatility could be a good thing in
terms at least according to right now
people are looking at volatility. It
means buying opportunities. I mean
essentially that's how everyone has been
taking every single dip that we've seen.
Why would it be different this time?
>> We titled our 2026 outlook buy the dip
in spot and volatility. So far that's
been the right market. it has been a
trading market and you take advantage of
these opportunities. I would say that
the number of liquidity events, the
amount of issuance that we're having
cumulatively should start to have an
effect though.
>> You talk about liquidity events and at
the same time people are saying there's
just so much cash on the sidelines.
There's this common uh phrase. I get a
lot of push back. People say you said
those words, it's wrong. There isn't
cash in the sidelines. It's the T-
bills. It's earning something. There's
actually yield here.
How much is there actually cash on the
sidelines that can come in and absorb
some of this paper without having to
sell other assets?
>> Ultimately, it's impossible to know, but
I would say the last 10 days price
action shows us that there's not as much
as maybe people think. Um, we wrote a
note kind of a couple of weeks ago
suggesting that the SpaceX IPO would
need people to take money out of the
market. And when you look at some of the
stocks that have underperformed over the
last 10 days, some of the stocks that
have seen the highest volatility, they
are some of the most owned names by
retail. So we absolutely think last week
some of the volatility that we saw and
the prior Friday was people making space
for the SpaceX IPO.
>> There's a a sort of interesting
development in markets, which is that
even when there is volatility in a
specific sector, it's like, you know,
the pistons in an in an engine, right?
So when that goes bad, then you have,
you know, everything else going up and a
broadening out in terms of a trade. Why
would it be any different this time in
terms of just a ball of money that's
washing around and all of this and just
sort of shifts somewhere else when
there's a moment of volatility?
>> Well, I think in the last couple of
weeks, it hasn't been. And I think it's
been astounding some of the dispersion
and rotation that we've actually seen on
some of the large down days. Now the
risk to the market is that you start to
have some negative price moves and you
get higher correlation that would drive
much more explosive uh moves in market.
I think over time the weight of issuance
is something that can potentially drive
that.
>> Are we going to see more of this when it
comes to anthropic and open AI coming to
market people having to sell elsewhere
to get in there?
>> I would absolutely expect to see that. I
think one of the things that we've said
about this is when you look at some of
the flows whether it's the passive
buying flows into SpaceX selling flows
from the market retail making space none
of these flows stand alone are actually
that large but it's the cumulative
effect of them so we absolutely think
that the higher volatility we've seen
particularly in NASDAQ which has been
quite extreme over the last uh seven or
eight trading days is attributable to
the liquidity environment and we are
absolutely going to see more of that
this year
>> Greg Battle wonderful to see you thank
you so much for being with us Greg
Battle of BNP Paraba here with us on
merger Monday on deals Monday on truce
Monday. It seems like a Monday where a
lot is getting done. Yes, you have the
backdrop of a truce between the US and
Iran fueling a risk on environment but
also we're hearing deals. It isn't just
Fox and Roku. Salesforce is buying an AI
customer service for firm uh for $3.6
billion. It seems like capital markets
are just wide open with liquidity just
being poured in. It's a massive summer
in that sense when it comes to deals
that are getting done in terms of the
IPOs that are coming to market. And then
of course good news for this market is
the fact that potentially this is a real
truce in terms of at minimum getting the
600 tankers that are stuck right now in
the street of Hermoose back to operation
and coming through. The details though
gonna be a bit messy down the road
>> which uh a lot of people are expecting
we might learn more from potentially
this week when the actual verbiage of
the deal is released and then a 60-day
period of further negotiation. We did
hear from the vice president earlier
this morning about that and of course
your conversation with Chris Wright. A
lot's already getting through. Yeah, he
says 7 million barrels a day. Chevron
cautioned it was a bit they think it's a
bit more closer to three but the bottom
line is there is more oil getting out of
the straight of her moose right now
>> and there's more liquidity in markets as
we see all of these deals really coming
to the four coming up tomorrow Keith
Learner of Truist Victoria Fernandez of
Crossmark former Fed governor Betsy Duke
and Torstston Slack of Apollo as we head
toward that meeting Wednesday we have
the FOMC and the new Fed chair Kevin
Walsh this was Bloomberg surveillance
good